<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>A Bride of a Summer’s Day</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day" epub:type="se:novella">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Bride of a Summer’s Day</h2>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3><p>

Crash went the bells from All Saints
tower; "One, two, three, four, five, six,
seven, eight," jangled the bells of old
Saint Clement's in response; and then All
Saints fired off its volley again.</p><p>
The crowd parted, the children scattered
their flowers, and the bride passed out of
the church leaning on the arm of her
newly-made husband.</p><p>
Very fair to look at was this bride. She
was tall and slender in figure, and owned
to features that might have been chiselled
out of a block of marble, for their faultless
regularity. Her complexion was a pure
white, with scarce a vestige of colour.
Hair of a bright, dark brown; eyes of a
deep grey, over-arched with long, sweeping
eyebrows, that finished in a delicate line
on the temples, completed the picture.</p><p>
This was Ida, elder daughter of George,
fifth Baron Culvers, on the day that she
was married to her cousin, Captain Sefton
Culvers, late of the Royal Hussars.</p><p>
Between the bride and bridegroom there
was just that amount of likeness that
might be expected between such near
relatives; that is to say, he owned to a
figure as tall and lithe as hers, a nose as
straight, eyes as large and luminous. But
there likeness ended. The look from the
girl's eyes was clear and straightforward;
the look from the man's was neither the
one nor the other, and could the long, dark
moustache, which hid the lines and curves
of his mouth, have been removed, the
receding chin and long, uncleft upper lip,
which mark the pleasure-loving, vacillating
nature, would at once have stood revealed.</p><p>
"A very suitable marriage; she has the
money, he will have the title," said certain
of the wedding-guests, as they settled
themselves in the carriages that were to
convey them from the church to the house,
two miles out of the town, which had
been lent to Lord Culvers for the oc-
casion.</p><p>
And then they fell to discussing sundry
scraps of gossip afloat in society respecting
the bride and her family; how that since
Lord Culvers's second marriage, his home
had not been exactly a paradise to him, for
Ida, in spite of her loveliness, had a temper
and a will of her own, and had known how
to stand up not only for her own rights,
but also for those of her twin-sister,
Juliet.</p><p>
"To think of a man in his position
marrying his daughter's governess and
chaperon," said an elderly dowager, who
would not at all have minded being the
second Lady Culvers herself.</p><p>
And from that they drifted on to the
discussion of other items in Lord Culvers's
family life, his own placid, easy-going
temper as compared with the restless,
excitable temperament of his first wife-a
temperament which there could not be a
doubt she had bequeathed, together with
her beauty, to her daughters.</p><p>
"If they were not beauties and heiresses,"
said one, no one would put up with their
odd whims and fancies."</p><p>
"To think," chimed in another, "that
Ida chose to be married at Hastings for
the whole and sole reason that her mother
lies buried in All Saints churchyard! If
she had been my daughter I would not
have given way to such a ridiculous whim.
But there, every one knows how com-
pletely Lord Culvers is ruled by his
womenkind."</p><p>
Assuredly it seemed an odd fancy for a
bride to choose the church for her wedding,
for the reason that the funeral service had
been read over her mother's coffin in the
chancel of that church, some twenty years
back,</p><p>
A second strange fancy was to be
announced by the bride before the day was
over.</p><p>
To the surprise of every one, when she
came downstairs equipped for travelling,
in a neat grey dress and hat, her beautiful
bouquet of orchids and orange - blossoms
was still in her hand.</p><p>
"What are you going to do with it,
Ida?" asked one of the bridesmaids,
coming forward; "you surely don't mean
to carry it away with you?"</p><p>
But that was exactly what she did mean
to do. She stooped-for he was a short
man-and kissed her father, then she
shook hands rather formally with her step-
mother, then passed on to her sister, to
whom she gave one long kiss, a kiss that
was in very truth a farewell and a
"Heaven bless you!" though not a word
was spoken by either.</p><p>
It was at the door of the carriage that
stood waiting to convey her and her hus-
band to the railway station, en route for
the Swiss lakes, that the destination of the
bridal bouquet was to be revealed.</p><p>
"Sefton," said the girl, turning to her
husband, and speaking in a tone that had
more of a command than a request in it,
"will you tell the coachman to drive first
to All Saints churchyard-I want to lay
these flowers on my mother's grave."</p><p>
The guests assembled under the porch,
with their rice and old satin shoes, ex-
changed glances. It was like the sound of
a funeral-bell in the midst of a feast.</p><p>
"My dear love!" cried Lady Culvers,
rustling forward in her silks and velvets,
"let some one else do that for you!" then,
as Ida deigned no reply, and the coachman
touched his horses with the whip, she
turned to Juliet, who was standing at her
elbow straining her eyes to see the last of
her darling sister, and exclaimed, "Oh,
what odd fancies she has! Where can she
get them from?”</p><p>
"From my father, of course," answered
Juliet, promptly; "his odd fancies are only
too well known." And the tone in which
she spoke the words gave as their under-
current of meaning: "If it had not been
for my father's odd fancies, you would be
Miss Pigott at the present moment, our
devoted and obedient chaperon, writing
our letters for us, doing everything in fact
that we didn't feel inclined to do, and
showering gratitude upon us in return for
our odds and ends of silks and laces."</p><p>
These two sisters resembled each other
in face and figure as only twin sisters
could; Juliet, in fact, might have been
called the replica of Ida, with license,
however, given to the artist to repeat his
original design with a lighter brush and in
slightly brighter colour. And not alone
in face and figure was their twinship
proclaimed, in temperament and character
the same striking resemblance was
apparent. Each was bright, gay, ima-
ginative, quick-tempered and quick-
witted, and, as a rule, the wishes and
opinions of one might have been taken
without a question as the wishes and
opinions of the other. What of seriousness,
if any, might lie beneath their apparently
reckless gaiety of mood and manner would
have been a difficult question for even
their most intimate friends to determine.</p><p>
The cloud that had gathered on Juliet's
face as she had kissed her farewell to her
sister disappeared with the sound of the
carriage wheels that bore her away. She
looked around at the guests. To her fancy
they all more or less appeared bored or
triste. Even her father's placid face, with
its benignant smile, had an unmistakeable
look of weariness upon it—a look which
said plainly as words could: "I wish to
goodness all this fuss and botheration were
over, and I could quietly slip away to an
easy-chair and a cigar."</p><p>
It was too tempting! Something she
must do, some one she must stir into
animation, or she would become drowsy
and stupid, like the rest.</p><p>
So she crossed the room to her father's
side, a vision of poetic loveliness in her
soft, white silk robes, with their maize
trimmings and tea-roses, but with a smile
on her lip, and mischief in her heart, that
would have suited sprite Puck himself.</p><p>
"Father," she said, in the quiet, cooing
voice she generally affected when one of
her most tricksy moods was upon her,
"about twenty names have just come into
my head-of people who ought to have
been asked to-day. And they all begin
with an 'N' Is it possible that when
Ida and I made out the list we turned
over two leaves of the visiting-book to-
gether, and so went on from 'M' to 'O'?
There'll be no end of botherations when
we get back to town.”</p><p>
Lord Culvers's benignant smile vanished.
Nature had sent him into the world with
a disposition as peaceful and placid as a
still lake amid mountains, and Fate had
linked his lot with temperaments as rest-
less and turbulent as the ocean itself.
Was life for him to be for ever whirlpool
and worry?</p><p>
An exclamation of annoyance rose to
his lips. A voice, however, over Juliet's
shoulder intercepted it.</p><p>
"Juliet," it said, "come into the garden
a moment. I want specially to speak to
you. I haven't had an opportunity
before."</p><p>
The speaker was a man of about eight-
and-twenty, a tall, well-built young fellow,
with crisp, curly hair of a reddish-brown,
and very prominent, very bright, brown
eyes. His face was of the type one sees
in classic pictures or Roman sculpture, and
that one associates with the helmet, spear,
and shield of Mars, or of Hector, or
Achilles. And lo! he came of a race that
had been money-grubbers for generations
-the Redways of London, Liverpool, and
New York, world-renowned as merchant-
princes, and of late years as financiers and
bankers.</p><p>
This was Clive Redway, Juliet's affianced
lover, only son of Joshua Redway, the
present representative of the firm, and the
owner of large estates in two English
counties, a deer-forest in Scotland, and
one of the most palatial of modern houses
to be found in London.</p><p>
Juliet followed her lover into the
garden.</p><p>
Glynde Lodge, the house that had been
lent to Lord Culvers for the wedding, was
small and unpretending, and stood in a
few acres of land abutting on the high-
road between Ore and Hastings.</p><p>
The trees it owned to were ill-grown and
but few in number, consequently, although
the rays of the June sun were already
beginning to slant, the unshadowed lawn
and gravelled walks did not look attractive
as promenades.</p><p>
"Oh, my complexion!" cried Juliet,
holding her bouquet of tea-roses slantwise
over her face, and leading the way across
the lawn to a small arbour at its farther
end.</p><p>
"Never mind about your complexion
just for once," said the young man, almost
irritably; "I want to know about this
wedding. Last night, you know, I couldn't
get you alone for five minutes. I was
never more astounded in my life than when
I had your letter, six weeks ago, just as I
was starting for home. Why, when I left
for the Cape, it was not even talked about.
You knew next to nothing of this cousin
of yours."</p><p>
"That was because he was always away
with his regiment, you know. But we had
always heard that he was charming, and
delightful, and fascinating "-this with a
mischievous side-glance at her companion
"and when father asked him to spend
Christmas with us, at Dering, I jumped
and clapped my hands, and ordered the
loveliest tea-gowns and ball—dresses,
and—"</p><p>
"Do be serious a moment, Juliet; I
want information. Remember, I know
next to nothing how the thing came
about."</p><p>
"Oh, well, I suppose it came about in
the usual way. I've no doubt he asked
her and she said 'Yes.' I don't suppose
she asked him."</p><p>
Clive made a gesture of annoyance.</p><p>
"To think that Ida should throw her-
self away on such a man as that!" he said
in a low, constrained tone.</p><p>
Juliet arched her eyebrows at him.</p><p>
"Why, what is the matter with him?”
she exclaimed. "Our first cousin, next
heir to the title, handsome, good talker,
plays tennis delightfully, sings divinely!
Why, I nearly fell in love with him my-
self."</p><p>
Here she threw another mischievous side-
glance at her companion, a glance, how-
ever, which was lost on him. They were
now seated side by side in the arbour, and
Clive was leaning forward with his elbows
on his knees, his hands half covering his
face.</p><p>
He did not speak for a minute or two.
Juliet began beating a tattoo with her
satin slipper on the floor.</p><p>
Presently, he had another question to
ask. It was:</p><p>
"What was it brought Ida home from
Florence in such a hurry? When I started
for the Cape, if you remember, she had
just taken it into her head that she must
be an artist, and had flown off to study
in the Florentine Galleries."</p><p>
"There go the Bethunes," said Juliet,
"in the brightest of grass-greens-to match
the buttercup tint of their complexions, I
suppose. And there go the Murrays, in
bluish-green and yellow, like so many tom-
tits."</p><p>
From the arbour in which they were
seated they could get a clear view of the
drive, adown which the carriages of de-
parting guests were now beginning to roll.</p><p>
Again Clive made an impatient move-
ment.</p><p>
"Will you mind answering my question,
Juliet?" he said in a tone that showed his
annoyance.</p><p>
"Oh, what was it? There go the St.
Johns, in salmon-pink, both of them, and
they're fifty if they're a day! Oh, I beg
your pardon. What brought Ida back
from Florence, did you say? My letters,
I suppose. I used to fill pages with
rapturous accounts of Sefton and his many
good qualities, and I dare say she thought
she would like to come and see him for
herself. Oh, then, too, I told her how
disagreeable Peggy had been over one or
two things, and I suppose she thought
she had better come home and take her in
hand for a time."</p><p>
"Peggy" was the nickname that the
young ladies had bestowed upon Miss
Pigott in the days of her chaperonage and
general usefulness. They preferred to
retain the name now that Miss Pigott had
become Lady Culvers, and occasionally
brought it out with admirable effect.</p><p>
"And I suppose," said Clive, slowly,
"when she came back that man was stay-
ing down in Northamptonshire with you,
she was caught by his surface attrac-
tions, and before any one could say a
word the thing was done. It's a marvel
to me that your father did not put his veto
on it at the outset."</p><p>
"Father!" exclaimed Juliet. "Why,
he was delighted. He knows that Sefton
must sooner or later come in for the title,
and for Dering, too, and that he hasn't
money enough to keep it up, and it seemed
to him a splendid arrangement that Ida's
money should be kept in the family.
There go the Conroys! Oh, that girl
has been lead-pencilling her dimple again,
one can see it a mile off! Every one's
going, I think. I'd better go back to the
house now. Peggy will be thinking too
much of herself if I leave her to say the
good-byes entirely on her own account."</p><p>
They both rose. Juliet made one step
forward, then paused.</p><p>
"One moment, Clive," she said, "you've
been asking me no end of questions-oh,
I couldn't count them on my fingers-will
you mind just answering one? What makes
you dislike Sefton as you do? Do you
really know anything against him?”</p><p>
Clive flushed a deep red, and for a
moment did not speak.</p><p>
"According to your own showing," the
girl went on, "you have only occasionally
met him in society. There really can be
nothing to bring against him, or, depend
upon it, our kind friends, one way or
another, would have been sure to have
done so when they congratulated us on
the marriage."</p><p>
Clive drew a long breath.</p><p>
"No," he said, slowly, "I suppose there
is really nothing that I can bring against
the man, although it has never been
clearly explained why he sent in his papers
to the Horse Guards. Your father knew of
his debts, no doubt. All the world knew
of them; but debts, though bad enough,
are scarcely enough to condemn a man
utterly. The only thing—"</p><p>
He broke off abruptly, his face growing
white and drawn as of a man in pain.
But Juliet did not note his change of
expression. Her eyes were fixed on a
distant view of an elaborate arrangement
of peach-coloured satin and velvet, out of
which looked the round red face of Lady
Culvers.</p><p>
"Oh, look at Peggy trying to do the
dignified," cried the girl, laughingly.
"Those are some of Ida's greatest friends,
and my lady is bowing them out with
stately dignity. I must go and detain
them and gush over them for at least half
an hour under her very eyelids!"</p><p>
Clive did not follow her across the lawn
to the house, but went his way along a
narrow path which led circuitously through
the orchard to another entrance, thereby
avoiding a series of friendly recognitions
from the departing guests; recognitions
for which he felt strangely disinclined that
day.</p><p>
He drew his hat lower over his eyes;
his face still looked white and drawn.</p><p>
"There's no one who walks this earth
good enough for her," he muttered to him-
self as he went along; and his eyes
assuredly were not turned in the direc-
tion where Juliet, in her pretty white
robes, stood "gushing" over guests whom
Lady Culvers would fain have kept at a
distance.

</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3><p>


Five o'clock chimed from All Saints
tower as Captain Culvers handed his bride
from the carriage at the churchyard gates.
It was now over three hours since the
wedding had taken place, and the neigh-
bourhood had returned to its normal
quietude. When Hastings is crowded
with holiday-makers, this unfashionable
quarter of the town is comparatively
deserted; and in June weather it is for-
saken even by its inhabitants for the
breezier hills and Marina. A shabby
"fly" went crawling along; a few curly-
headed, unwashed children came trooping
forth from one of the alleys leading off the
old-world street; a fisherman in a blue
jersey strolled down from the Tackleway
and paused for a moment to look at the
handsome equipage drawn up alongside
the pavement. Otherwise, Captain Culvers
and his bride had the street to themselves.</p><p>
A double flight of steps leads from the
pavement to All Saints churchyard, which
runs up the side of one of the two hills
that dominate the old town. At the foot
of these steps Ida paused.</p><p>
"Let me go alone to my mother's grave,
Sefton; I particularly wish it," she said;
and once more her tone appeared to have
more of command than of entreaty in it.</p><p>
But it was not a request to be met with
a demur, so Captain Culvers drew back,
and allowed her to pass on alone.</p><p>
Although the street was in shadow, the
churchyard, on higher ground, lay in sun-
light still. Very peaceful and picturesque
it looked in the silence and brightness of
the summer afternoon, with its grave-
stones gleaming white from out the green-
ness of the hillside.</p><p>
The path which Ida followed took a
sharp curve at the east end of the church,
and she was very quickly out of sight.
Captain Culvers stood watching the tall,
graceful figure, in its soft grey draperies,
till it disappeared, saying to himself what
a lucky fellow he was, after all his ups and
downs in life, to have fallen on his feet at
last.</p><p>
Then he took out his cigar-case, and
telling the coachman to walk the horses
up and down, strolled down the street
towards the sea.</p><p>
He knew so little of Hastings, that the
fish-market and the tall, black, shiny rope-
houses came upon him as a surprise. The
odours of the place, however, at the close
of this summer's day were intolerable; so
he turned his back on it, and the loitering
fishermen, and the lazy, lapping summer
sea, and returned to the shadow and
quaintness of the old street, with its
ancient overhanging houses, and queer
by-ways.</p><p>
Quarter-past five struck.</p><p>
"The Captain will be getting impatient,
I take it, soon," said John to Jehu on the
box of the carriage, as they saw Captain
Calvers pull out his watch and time it by
the church clock.</p><p>
"It's a big churchyard; there are a
mighty lot of tombs there, perhaps the
lady has lost her way," answered Jehu,
lazily flicking the flies from his horses'
manes.</p><p>
Half-past five struck.</p><p>
A little Italian boy with a barrel-organ
and monkey rounded the corner of the
street, and began grinding a feeble, droning
sort of version of Garibaldi's Hymn, to
which the monkey beat time with toy
cymbals, much to the delight of the
urchins, who now came trooping forth
from all corners.</p><p>
Jehu pulled up his horses with a jerk at
the churchyard gate, saying that half an
hour was time enough and to spare for
the lady to have lost her way and found
it again, deposited her flowers, and re-
turned.</p><p>
"They'll lose their train," whispered
John, with a grin. "And then the
Captain will lose something else, I take it
—his temper."</p><p>
Possibly Captain Culvers's fears had
flown in the same direction, for, as he
came sauntering up the street, he suddenly
paused, pulled out his time-tables, and
began consulting them with something of
a frown gathering on his brow.</p><p>
A quarter to six struck.</p><p>
The little Italian boy ended his droning
ditty, shouldered his organ and monkey,
and departed, followed by a detachment of
the admiring urchins.</p><p>
Captain Culvers threw away his cigar,
opened the churchyard gate, and began
with rather a hurried tread to mount the
steep flight of steps. It had not been
swept since the wedding, and Captain
Culvers as he went along crushed under
his feet the remnants of the rose-buds
and daisies that had been scattered for his
bride.</p><p>
Precisely at that moment Juliet, at the
garden gates of Glynde Lodge, was saying
a laughing good-bye to some of her girl-
friends, who were telling her that they
hoped shortly to be called upon to officiate
as her bridesmaids.</p><p>
"I'm not sure that I hope it," she
answered. "A wedding like this, where
everybody does what everybody else has
done for generations, would be intolerable
to me. I told Ida last night I wondered
how she could endure it. No; when I'm
married I must do something to make a
sensation—wear a nun's dress, or a riding-
habit, or—"</p><p>
"Juliet!" exclaimed her friend, "if
you're going to do that sort of thing, I
shall make a point of getting up in church
and forbidding your banns!"</p><p>
Juliet clapped her hands.</p><p>
"The very thing! That would be
heavenly!" she cried. "I only wish
father would do it instead of you, and
then there would be some fun in getting
married. But there's no such luck in
store for me. Father always approves our
choice so exasperatingly, it takes all the
delight out of getting engaged. I should
adore, positively adore, Clive-not just
like him, as I do now-if only every one
in the house would run him down, and
tell me I'm throwing myself away on him!"</p><p>
And Clive was at her elbow, and dis-
tinctly heard her closing remarks-heard,
but paid no heed to them-assuredly not
the lover-like heed that might have been
expected from a man just returned to his
affianced bride after six months' absence
at the Cape.</p><p>
"Juliet," he said, as the girl-friends
waved their farewells, and drove away,
"tell me a little about your arrangements.
How long do you stay here? Remember,
I know nothing about anything. Your
letters were always so short—"</p><p>
"So short?" interrupted Juliet, making
her eyes very round. Why, I remember
distinctly that the very last letter I sent
you covered the whole of a sheet of note-
paper!"</p><p>
"Yes, and from its first to its last word
was nothing but a description of a young
lady's dress that had excited your wrath at
a fancy-dress ball. You did not answer
any one of the questions I asked you."</p><p>
"That was her fault for wearing such a
dress. It was pink chiffon over—"</p><p>
"Oh, spare me, Juliet, I've had it once!
Now will you answer my question? When
do you return to town?"</p><p>
But instead of answering him, Juliet
fixed her eyes full on his face and said:</p><p>
"How white and tired you look! What
have you been doing with yourself?"</p><p>
He gave a little forced laugh.</p><p>
"Well, you know, a sea voyage isn't
always the most exhilarating thing in the
world. One gets awfully bored sometimes,
shut up from morning till night with the
same set of people."</p><p>
"I couldn't stand it for a week even. I
 should jump into the sea before I was out
 of sight of the land. Arthur Glynde has
written some lovely verses about what
he calls the 'changeful, restless ocean';
but—"</p><p>
Clive interrupted her impatiently.</p><p>
"Never mind about what an incipient
young poet has written, just tell me, Juliet,
what I want to know. When do you
go back to town?"</p><p>
"Oh, but I do mind very much what
this special incipient young poet writes,
because he brings his verses to me at least
twice a week, and reads them aloud. Yet
we are friends!"</p><p>
The last sentence was added in a serio-
comic tone, with a marked emphasis on
the conjunction.</p><p>
Clive bit his lip.</p><p>
"Once more, Juliet, will you—"</p><p>
"Oh, don't say it again," interrupted
the girl. "Well, father and Peggy intend
returning to-morrow in time for a luncheon
somewhere or other. Some of the servants
return to-night, because, of course, Mrs.
Glynde's servants are here, and the house
isn't large, and-oh, by the way, wasn't it
kind of Mrs. Glynde to lend her house in
this way for the wedding, and to leave her
horses and carriages behind-oh!"-here
she broke off abruptly, with a little start-
"I have an idea, Clive. A lovely one!"</p><p>
"Let's have it. Something sensational
of course?"</p><p>
"Of course, or how could it be lovely?
It's just this. Father and Peggy have set
their minds on a quiet early dinner to-
night, and have made all their arrange-
ments for returning to-morrow. Now,
wouldn't it be delightful to swoop down
on them and insist-yes, insist-on going
back to-night? Oh, the battle-royal there
would be between me and Peggy! And I
should be sure to carry the day. They're
both tired out limp as can be with the
fuss of the wedding, and I feel as lively
as a cricket and equal to anything."</p><p>
"I believe it! But if I were you I
wouldn't go out of my way to have battles-
royal with Lady Culvers. They'll come
without any seeking, depend upon it. No,
let your father have his dinner in peace
to-night. There's ever so much I want to
talk to you about-no end of adventures
to tell you. Let us go for a stroll in the
orchard-that is the orchard over there,
isn't it?-and then we can talk without fear
of interruption."</p><p>
But if he had no end of adventures to
relate, assuredly she did not hear them that
evening as they strolled in the golden
haze of the slanting sunlight among the
low-growing apple and pear-trees.</p><p>
"Now I must be on my guard against
compliments," Juliet had said to herself
as, side by side, they wandered along the
narrow walks.</p><p>
Her fears were needless. Compliments
of the lover-like kind were evidently as far
from his thoughts as adventures; for, from
the time they swung back the orchard-
gate till the clanging of the dressing-bell
sent them back to the house, his talk was
wholly and solely of one person, one thing
-Ida, and her choice of a husband.</p><p>
In fact, his conversation was simply a
continuation of the one begun in the
arbour in the early part of the afternoon.
His questions were so many and so minute
that Juliet at last threw back her head,
held her chin very high in the air, and
surveyed him with half-closed eyes, as she
was in the habit of surveying her step-
mother when catechised by her on matters
which the wilful girl deemed outside
parental jurisdiction.</p><p>
"Really, Clive," she said at length, "if
you had Ida's welfare so much at heart
you should have managed to arrive a day
or two sooner, and have cross-questioned
her yourself as to Sefton's character and
the state of her feelings towards him. I
can only repeat that Sefton seemed to me
very delightful, and I don't think Ida will
ever feel dull with such a charming com-
panion. I don't know what you mean by
being 'devoted to him.' She certainly
was never enthusiastic in his praises. But
then, as you know, Ida and I both take our
love affairs calmly."</p><p>
While they had been talking, the sun
had sunk behind a bank of apricot clouds,
and the golden haze which had formed, so
to speak, the atmosphere in which they
had been walking, had changed in subtle
mystic fashion to the silvery mist of twi-
light.</p><p>
The clanging of the dressing-bell inter-
cepted Clive's reply.</p><p>
With the sound of the bell came the
crunch of carriage wheels along the
gravelled drive.</p><p>
"Visitors! How delightful!" cried
Juliet. "Good-bye, after all, to the quiet
dinner father was counting on. Could
anything have happened more pro-
pitiously?"</p><p>
But when they rounded the corner of
the house and came in sight of the front
door her delight changed to amazement,
for there, descending from the carriage,
was no chance guest, but the bridegroom
of the morning, Captain Culvers himself.


</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-3" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3><p>


"Impossible!" cried Lord Culvers,
rubbing his forehead as if to waken his
brain to something it refused to take
in.</p><p>
"Incredible!" echoed Lady Culvers,
throwing up her hands, and standing in
an attitude of amazement in the middle of
the room.</p><p>
"Did not return, did you say?" ex-
claimed Juliet, with wide-open eyes,
advancing slowly, step by step, towards
her cousin.</p><p>
And then Captain Culvers had to tell
his story all over again. It was to the
effect that after waiting patiently for three-
quarters of an hour for Ida's return from
her mother's grave, he had grown slightly
uneasy as to what might be detaining her,
and had gone in search of her; but that,
although he had found the bridal bouquet
lying on the marble slab which marked the
first Lady Culvers's resting-place, Ida was
nowhere to be seen. There was not a soul
in sight of whom he could make enquiries,
so, after scouring every corner of the
churchyard in vain, he had thought it best
to return, to consult with her father and
friends before he took farther steps in the
matter.</p><p>
Assuredly a strange story this! Captain
Culvers told it with more of coherence than
might have been expected of a man in the
circumstances. But then Captain Culvers
had something of a reputation for coolness
at a crisis when most other men would
have lost self-control. Some ten years
back news of the sudden death of his
father had been brought to him as he was
in the very act of taking aim at a
partridge, and he had carefully brought
down his bird before he had turned to the
messenger for farther tidings.</p><p>
But for all his calmness, his face looked
white and anxious, and it was difficult to
believe that he was the man who had
stood, only a few hours before, in that self-
same room, receiving with triumphant
pride the congratulations of his friends.</p><p>
When he had finished his tale, for a
moment every one looked in every one
else's face, saying never a word.</p><p>
Clive was the first to break the
silence.</p><p>
All this time he had been standing a
little apart from the rest, with his back to
the light. Now he came forward, speaking
hurriedly nervously, one might say.</p><p>
"Something must have happened to
her. There is no time to be lost. Search
must be made in all directions before
night. If you'll allow me, Lord Culvers,
I'll go at once to the local police office."</p><p>
Perhaps Captain Culvers thought that
the expression "If you'll allow me," ought
to have been addressed to him. The frown
on his face deepened.</p><p>
"If there is a hue and cry to be made,
it will be my business," he said, curtly.
"But it occurs to me that there may be
another explanation to the affair. It is
possible that Ida, with her love of fun and
sensation, may be playing off some trick
on me. Do you remember"—here he
turned to Juliet-"what happened a month
ago when you and she promised to meet
me at the St. Maurs', to join a party to
Henley, and you took it into your heads
to make a fool of me, and instead spent
the day attending a succession of services
at Westminster Abbey?"</p><p>
Juliet's reply was prevented by the
entrance of a servant, with a note which
he presented to Lord Calvers-an odd little
twist of paper with ragged edges, that
appeared to have been torn out of a pocket-
book.</p><p>
Lord Culvers's hand trembled as he
opened it.</p><p>
"Ida's writing!" cried Juliet, looking
over her father's shoulder.</p><p>
There fell a moment of silence, and then
Lord Culvers read aloud in a quaking
voice:</p><p>
"Do not be uneasy about me. I am
with friends. I will write shortly.-Ida."</p><p>
"Thank Heaven!" exclaimed a voice,
so charged with deep feeling it was
scarcely possible to recognise it as the
voice of Clive Redway.</p><p>
Captain Culvers started, and looked at
him.</p><p>
Clive did not trouble to acknowledge the
look. In hot haste he followed the servant
out of the room, to enquire by whom the
note had been brought, and getting the
reply, "an Italian organ-boy," he had set
off at once, as with seven-league boots,
in pursuit of the messenger.</p><p>
Captain Culvers turned sharply to
Juliet.</p><p>
"You know something of this," he said,
his suavity of manner for the moment
entirely gone.</p><p>
Lord Culvers came forward in great
agitation.</p><p>
"Is it possible that you and Ida together
can have planned this piece of folly?" he
exclaimed.</p><p>
Lady Culvers came forward, ostensibly
in even greater agitation.</p><p>
"It is all of a piece with what has
been going on for the past two years,"
she said, forgetting her usual dulcet
tones. "Whenever one has taken a
foolish idea into her head, the other,
instead of helping me to reason her out of
it, has joined in league against me."</p><p>
"You! you! you!" exclaimed Juliet,
turning her head from one to the other,
and arching her brows at each in turn.
"How can you imagine such nonsense!
What fun should I get out of frightening
you all into fits, with Ida not here to enjoy
it with me?"</p><p>
The argument on her lips seemed an
unanswerable one.</p><p>
"No," said Captain Calvers, slowly, "I
can't fancy you helping to organise such a
piece of folly unless you expected some-
thing in the shape of fun by way of pay-
ment."</p><p>
"With friends," said Lord Culvers,
looking down on the scrap of paper which
he still held in his hand; "who can those
friends be, I wonder?"</p><p>
"Ah," said Lady Calvers, in a soft, sad
voice, "the girls have many friends that I
should not have chosen for them."</p><p>
"That goes without saying," said Juliet,
promptly and sarcastically.</p><p>
Then, in succession they ran over the
names of those on their visiting list whom
it seemed probable Ida might have selected
as her colleagues.</p><p>
But it was all the wildest conjecture,
and no definite conclusion could be arrived
at.</p><p>
"Well," said Captain Culvers, "all I
can say is, whoever has arranged or connived
at this piece of absurdity, shall not have
the pleasure of seeing me raising a hue and
cry over it."</p><p>
His face was very white. He set his
teeth over his last words.</p><p>
"That's right, Sefton, that's right,” said
Lord Culvers, eagerly, "there must be no
hubbub, and a hundred thousand tongues
set going over this affair. No, no, it
mustn't get into the papers, and my little
girl be made the talk of the town."</p><p>
In a flash of fancy the unlucky father
saw a long string of carriages outside his
house in Belgrave Square, and heard an
uninterrupted succession of knocks, rings,
and enquiries for the missing bride.</p><p>
"It would be terrible! We should all
have to take flight somewhere," he went
on, answering as it were his own thoughts.
"It's disturbing, very. I'm altogether
bewildered. I can't see what I ought to do."
Then he turned suddenly to Sefton. "Tell
me, what do you intend doing?" he asked,
with great energy.</p><p>
Sefton's reply was one word.</p><p>
"Nothing."</p><p>
"Nothing?"</p><p>
"Nothing."</p><p>
Lord Culvers stared at him a moment,
and then began slowly to walk up and
down the room with his hands behind his
back.</p><p>
"After all, perhaps that will be the
wisest course," he said, at one end of the
room; things must come right if we let
them alone. She is with friends; she will
write, she says. Yes, yes, better be patient,
and let things alone to take their course,"
he finished, at the other end of the room.</p><p>
It had ever been the habit of his life thus
to attempt a compromise between himself
and life's difficulties.</p><p>
"You won't even make an effort to find
out where she is staying?" asked Juliet.</p><p>
"My dear, she says she is with friends.
I wish certainly she had chosen another
time for her visit; but-but don't you re-
member once before she did something of
the sort-started off to stay with the
Murrays at Deeside without saying a word
to anybody?"</p><p>
"And don't you remember, dear love,
how she and Juliet once packed up their
boxes, and said they were going to keep
house together in the village, and sent off
the gardener's boy to look out for a cottage
for them?" said Lady Culvers, sweetly and
sadly.</p><p>
"Ah, yes, yes, and they both went off to
town alone, one day, and arranged for a
week's lessons in elocution and acting so
that they might both go on the stage the
week after!" said Lord Culvers, his
memory, jogged by his wife, suddenly
becoming lively.</p><p>
Captain Culvers cut the reminiscences
short by a sudden question.</p><p>
"Had Ida much money with her, do you
know?-on that will very much depend the
length of time her whim will last," he
asked, curtly.</p><p>
"I paid her her three months' dividends
in notes last night," answered Lord
Culvers, "and told her to put them away
carefully. I dare say, however, she stuffed
them into her pocket after the manner of
girls, and pulled them out with her pocket-
handkerchief five minutes after."</p><p>
"I beg your pardon," said Juliet, feeling
herself called upon to take up the cudgels
on Ida's behalf, "I saw her put the whole
of the notes most carefully into a letter-
case which I gave her last week, and then
put that also most carefully-into her
pocket when she changed her dress."</p><p>
"That means," said Sefton, "that Ida,
if she is so disposed, can carry on her whim,
or whatever you please to call it, for
another six months."</p><p>
Juliet narrowed her eyes and looked at
him. It seemed to her that the deserted
bridegroom was scarcely exhibiting the
alternate fury and despair that might have
been expected of a bridegroom in the cir-
cumstances.</p><p>
He certainly had a white, beaten, crest-
fallen look on his face; but otherwise he
was clear-headed and prosaic to a degree.</p><p>
"No, no, my boy," interposed Lord
Culvers, "don't take such a gloomy view
of things. She isn't likely to do that.
Take my word for it, she'll write to-
morrow, and come back the day after.
Yes, depend upon it she will."</p><p>
He recommenced his slow walk up and
down the room, then suddenly paused in
front of Sefton.</p><p>
"An idea has come to me," he said, in a
tone that might almost be called cheerful.
"I'm sure you'll fall in with it, every one
of you." And then he stated his idea in
as few words as possible.</p><p>
It was that Sefton should start at once
for "anywhere"- that is to say, some
place where he could live quietly and un-
noticed for a time, and thus give the im-
pression to "society" that he and his
bride were on their wedding tour. So soon
as news was received from Ida, Lord
Culvers would himself go to her, and at once
insist on her joining her husband.</p><p>
The scheme approved itself to the
family party, who grew prosaic in the
discussion of its details.</p><p>
"The 'anywhere' will be Paris; it is
easier to hide in a crowd than in a wilder-
ness," said Sefton, readily.</p><p>
And once more Juliet narrowed her.
eyes and looked at him.</p><p>
Outside the twilight was rapidly chang-
ing to night. A servant coming in to
light the lamps was peremptorily dismissed.
It seemed to the disturbed family conclave
easier to discuss their difficulties in the
semi-gloom than with the glare of lamps
lighting up their troubled faces.</p><p>
But the entrance of the servant turned
their thoughts to a necessary detail of Lord
Culvers's scheme - what reason should
be circulated in the household to account
for Captain Culvers's sudden return to the
house without his bride.</p><p>
Here Lady Culvers came to the rescue,
and proved herself a mistress of the art of
glib fibbing to an extent that surprised
even Juliet, who had been in the habit of
saying to her girl friends what a mercy it
was that apostles no longer walked the
earth, or "Peggy" would assuredly have
been wound up and carried out like
Sapphira.</p><p>
The story which Lady Culvers said she
would herself put into circulation among
the domestics was to the effect that Ida,
overdone with the day's fatigues, had fainted
on her mother's grave; had been thus found
by the verger of the church, who had es-
corted her to his cottage at the back of the
churchyard, there to rest and recover
herself. There Captain Culvers had found
her, and there he had left her while he had
gone back at her request to tell her father
that she did not feel equal to undertaking
the proposed wedding tour, but instead
would, after a day's rest in Hastings, go
down to Devon on a visit to Captain
Culvers's mother.</p><p>
Thither Ida's maid, who was at that
moment waiting at Saint Leonard's railway-
station with trunks and boxes innumer-
able, was to be at once sent, and there she
was to be told to remain awaiting farther
orders.</p><p>
"Of course," said Captain Culvers,
"such a story won't bear criticism, and
there isn't a servant in the house who'll be
fool enough to believe it. But I can't
concoct a better, so I suppose it must do.
Now I'll ring for the cart to be brought
round."</p><p>
"One thing is certain," said Lady
Culvers, her aptitude for fibbing far from
exhausted, "the story will grow into some-
thing quite different long before it reaches
town, and then we can correct and modify
it according to circumstances. But it seems
to me to suit our present disgraceful
necessity."</p><p>
Captain Culvers had a word to say to
Juliet as he bid her good-bye.</p><p>
"It was an immense relief to me to
hear your energetic disclaimer of con-
nivance with Ida in her folly," he said,
looking at her steadily.</p><p>
She gave him look for look.</p><p>
"I made no energetic disclaimer, as you
call it," she replied. "I would not con-
descend to such a thing."</p><p>
For a moment they looked each other
full in the face; but no more was said.</p><p>
As Captain Culvers drove out through
the lodge gates, Clive, weary-footed and
dispirited, was coming in. His tramp
along the high-road had been an unsuc-
cessful one. The little organ-boy had
disappeared as completely as if the earth
had opened to receive him.


</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-4" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3><p>


"It's a puzzle, Clive, from first to last.
I feel as if we were trying to reason the
matter out from an insufficient statement
of facts. Come, have you nothing more to
tell me?"</p><p>
So spoke Joshua Redway, and then,
leaning back in his chair, with eyes
steadily fixed on his son's face, he awaited
Clive's reply.</p><p>
They were seated in a private room,
opening off the offices of the firm in
Lombard Street; a room in which big
loans had been negotiated, and contracts
of world-wide importance had been signed
and sealed; a room, too, to which others
beside Clive were in the habit of resorting
in times of perplexity for wisdom and
counsel from the successful financier.</p><p>
For Joshua Redway had a great repu-
tation for shrewdness and clear-headedness
not only within but beyond the limits of
his home circle; and when Clive had asked
Lord Culvers's permission to take his
father into his confidence respecting Ida's
strange disappearance, the permission was
not only readily granted, but Lord Culvers
had added that counsel from Mr. Redway
at such a juncture would be most highly
esteemed by him.</p><p>
Three days had passed since the wedding.
No letter had been received from the
missing girl, nor had tidings of her reached
her people from any quarter.</p><p>
The Culvers's family had returned to
town, and had resumed the even tenor of
their way; or, perhaps it would be more
correct to say "the busy tenor of their
way," for the London season was in full
swing, and the Culvers family were, as the
phrase goes, "very much in the vortex."</p><p>
Clive answered his father's question with
another.</p><p>
"Do you not think that the Culvers's,
one and all, take the matter very coolly?"
he asked.</p><p>
"I do. So far, however, as Lord
Culvers is concerned, I'm not surprised.
Do you remember the fire at the back of
his house in Belgrave Square?"</p><p>
The incident alluded to had exhibited
Lord Culvers in a most characteristic light.
Two or three frightened servants had
rushed into his room in the dead of night,
exclaiming, "A fire, my lord, in the mews
at the back of the house; pray get up."
"A fire," Lord Culvers had repeated,
calmly, without opening his eyes; "well,
I dare say it will go out again," and he
had turned over on his other side to finish
his night's rest.</p><p>
"The impression in the house seems to
be," continued Clive, "that Juliet knows
more than she feels inclined to tell."</p><p>
"Can't you induce her to speak?"</p><p>
"Not about Ida; although she'll talk
by the hour about the brute Ida has
married."</p><p>
The father for a moment looked keenly
at his son.</p><p>
"Let me see," he said, after a moment's
pause, "you are not taking up this matter
out of friendship to Captain Culvers?"</p><p>
"Good heavens, no!" cried Clive, hotly.
"I've not spoken to the man half-a-dozen
times in my life."</p><p>
"Then I suppose it is because she is
Juliet's sister that you have thus thrown
yourself heart and soul into the affair?"</p><p>
There came no reply from Clive. His
face flushed crimson. His lips tightened.</p><p>
Mr. Redway's eyes did not lift from his
face.</p><p>
"Clive," he said, after waiting in vain
for an answer, "you are only giving me a
half confidence. Why did you not marry
this girl yourself?"</p><p>
Then Clive's words came in a torrent.</p><p>
"Because," he said, passionately, "she
would have nothing to do with me
treated me as if I were something too vile
for her to notice. When I went into a
room she would walk out of it; if I joined
a game of tennis in which she was play-
ing she would immediately lay down
her racket; she would not even dance in
a set in which I should have been her
vis-à-vis, and have had to touch her hand."</p><p>
The father looked his surprise.</p><p>
He was a tall, handsome man, with a
fine head, and eyes that pierced like an
eagle's. He drew his brows over them,
and thought for awhile, giving Clive time
to cool down.</p><p>
"Had she always treated you in that
fashion?" he presently asked.</p><p>
"No," said Clive, bitterly, "when I was
first introduced to her at the Gordons',
where we were both staying, she seemed
to-to like me; at least, I thought so.
Then Juliet joined her there, and every-
thing at once seemed changed."</p><p>
"Ah-h, Juliet. I suppose you quickly
transferred your devotion from one sister
to the other."</p><p>
"I scarcely know how it came about,"
said Clive, miserably. "Juliet was so
kind and sympathetic, Ida so strange and
cold; and they were so much alike in
their faces and their ways! Sometimes
when I was talking to Juliet I could fancy
she was Ida! And then before I well knew
how far I had gone, the thing was done."</p><p>
"Ah-h, and then Ida rushes off to
Florence to study art; you go to the Cape
on a mission for me; Captain Culvers
comes upon the scene and flirts with
Juliet; home rushes Ida, and throws her-
self once more into the breach, marries
her cousin; and Juliet is kept true to her
absent lover. Then, having married a
man for whom possibly she had neither
liking nor esteem, she finds it impossible
to carry her self-sacrifice farther, and so
takes sudden flight. Clive, there is my
solution to the whole mystery."</p><p>
And Clive, with eyes opened too late,
had the conviction forced upon him that
this solution was most probably the true
one.</p><p>
Ida's devotion to Juliet had never been
open to doubt, and she had sealed that
devotion by giving up her lover in the
first instance to the sister's whim. Then
when a lover less worthy had come upon
the scene, and Juliet's fancy had seemed
to waver, she had put the question of the
capricious girl's happiness beyond a doubt
by another act of self-sacrifice-a marriage
with the less desirable suitor who might
otherwise have fallen to Juliet's lot. Read
in this light, the wedding at the church
where the funeral service had been read
over her dead mother, the laying of her
bridal flowers on that mother's grave,
could be easily understood.</p><p>
Clive groaned aloud.</p><p>
"What a fool—a miserable fool I have
been!" he exclaimed, clenching his fingers
into the palm of his hand. "I could blow
my brains out!"</p><p>
"In your love affairs I'll admit they've
been of very little use to you," said his
father, drily.</p><p>
Then there fell a pause, during which
the father's heart must have ached for the
look of dumb, hopeless misery which
settled on his son's face.</p><p>
"If I could only know that she is safe
and well, I should ask nothing more,"
said Clive, presently, in a voice that
matched his face.</p><p>
Assuredly at the moment news of her
health and safety compassed the whole of
his desires. He could not have framed
his lips to the prayer that she might return
and be planted in Captain Culvers's home
as his wife.</p><p>
Mr. Redway did not heed the remark;
absorbed in thought, he leaned his head
upon his hand.</p><p>
"The only objection," he said, slowly,
after awhile, "that I can see to my version
of the affair, is that it is too simple a read-
ing of the mystery. In real life, as a rule,
the solutions to mysteries are nearly as
mysterious as the thing itself. Human
motives and feelings are so complex, that
when they are revealed to us, it is often
difficult to believe that they stand to
action in the relation of cause to effect.
And when a woman's motives and feelings
are concerned, the whole thing becomes a
thousand times more complex."</p><p>
"But no other solution presents itself;
I wish to Heaven it did!" said Clive,
passionately.</p><p>
"Lord Culvers appears to be without
ideas or theories on the matter?"</p><p>
"Absolutely. His one endeavour is to
keep the matter quiet till Ida writes. I've
begged him again and again to let me run
over to Florence to question Madame
Verdi-the lady with whom Ida stayed
when there as to whether she knows
anything of Ida's movements. But no
he will not have the affair made public.
He says Ida will be sure to write in a day
or so."</p><p>
"Her promise to write may have been
only a blind to keep them all quiet while
she arranged her plans."</p><p>
"Exactly; and meanwhile we are losing
precious time. And as for hushing the
matter up, the thing will soon be impos-
sible. Already people are beginning to
talk. I was asked only this morning if
it were true that Ida and Culvers had
quarrelled on their wedding tour, and that
Ida had returned to her home. I dare
say the servants have set the wildest
stories afloat."</p><p>
"What is Juliet's theory? Of course, if
my solution of the mystery is correct, it is
impossible to believe that Juliet knows
any more than we do."</p><p>
"Juliet is altogether an enigma to me.
To all appearance she takes the matter as
calmly as her father."</p><p>
"And you say you have cross-questioned
her yourself?"</p><p>
"Tried to. But you might as well try
to cross-question the wind or the waves as
Juliet when she has a mind to be silent.
With all her gaiety and capriciousness, she
can keep a secret if she is so disposed. I
know perfectly well if Ida had tied her
down with any promises, there's no power
on earth would make her break them.
Those sisters are loyal to each other to an
altogether remarkable degree."</p><p>
"Did you ask her, as I suggested, what
jewellery her sister was wearing when she
left home?"</p><p>
"I did so this morning. She is not at
all sure what rings Ida was wearing; but
she knows for certain that she had on
the diamond hawk brooch that had been
her mother's, for she saw her fasten the
band of her dress with it under her
shoulder-cape when she changed her dress
for travelling."</p><p>
"Ah-h, that's something to note!"</p><p>
"I should think so," said Clive, gloomily;
"there are over fifty diamonds in that
brooch. It must be worth several thou-
sands; and, if Ida is so disposed, would
give her the means of roaming the world
and keeping us all in suspense for good-
ness knows how long."</p><p>
"And gives, also, her friends the means
of tracing her. No woman could wear
such a brooch as that without attracting
attention, let alone attempt to raise money
on it. Take my advice, Clive: get
Lord Culvers's permission, and run out
advertisements and handbills for that
brooch without a moment's delay; of
course offering a suitable reward for it.
Where that brooch is, there is Ida. If
we get news of the one we get news of the
other."


</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-5" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3><p>


Lord Culvers did not offer any oppo-
sition to Mr. Redway's suggestion. Off
and on the girls lost a good many articles
of jewellery in the course of a year, and an
advertisement more or less, for one of
their brooches, would not be likely to at-
tract much attention among their friends.
So, on the day after Clive's consultation
with his father, the following advertise-
ment appeared in the leading London and
provincial journals:</p><p>
"Five hundred pounds reward will be
paid for information that will lead to the
recovery of a diamond brocch, missing
from a lady's jewel-case. It is formed as
a hawk with outstretched wings, holding
in its beak a spray of emeralds. The eyes
are composed of two large rubies.</p><p>
"Information to be given to Messrs.
Hunt and Locke, Chancery Lane, London."</p><p>
The Messrs. Hunt and Locke thus
mentioned were not Lord Culvers's family
lawyers, but a firm of solicitors noted for
their successful conduct of complicated
criminal cases.</p><p>
Simultaneously with its publication in
the London newspapers, the advertisement
appeared in the principal Continental
journals.</p><p>
Captain Culvers, lounging over his
breakfast and matutinal cigar, in his
rooms in a quiet street in an unfashionable
quarter of Paris, had his eye caught by it.</p><p>
This visit of his to the gay capital did
not promise to be either a pleasant or a
profitable one to him. It was beyond
measure irksome to him to shun all pos-
sible rendezvous of his countrymen of his
own social standing; to remain within
doors the greater part of the day, and to
issue forth only when the fashionable
world, to which, of right, he held entrée,
were safely shut in at their dinners, their
opera, or their balls. Yet this was what
circumstances compelled him to, unless he
was prepared to run the gauntlet of all
sorts of questions and conjectures respect-
ing his private affairs and sudden change
of plans.</p><p>
Society, to a man of his temperament,
is as absolute a necessity as his cigar and
his game of baccarat. He was consequently
driven to seek it in haunts and among
associates of a lower grade. He thus
became once more the habitué of a sport-
ing, drinking, card-playing set, that, in
view of his approaching marriage, he had
vowed should know him no more.</p><p>
He read the advertisement offering the
large reward for Ida's brooch with an
anxious, startled look on his face.</p><p>
"The fools!" he muttered. "Who has
set going this piece of folly? It must be
put a stop to without a moment's delay."
He went at once to his writing-table;
but the letter which he there set himself to
write was not finished without many a
pause to his pen and much careful thought.</p><p>
Eventually it ran thus:</p><p>
"Rue Vervien, 15.</p><p>
"MY DEAR UNCLE, - I have this
moment read your advertisement offering
a reward for Ida's brooch. At least, I
judge it to be yours from the description
of the brooch, which I recognise as one that
Ida was very fond of wearing. Will you
mind my asking you if you are quite sure
she had it on when she left home with me?
I saw nothing of it." This was under-
lined. "Are you acting upon information
given you by Juliet? If so, may I ask
whether her statement is confirmed by
Ida's maid? If this is not the case, pardon
me if I say that I think you are being mis-
led to follow a wrong scent. Take my
word for it, Juliet knows more than any
of us"-this was also underlined-"and
my belief is that if you concentrate atten-
tion on her you'll come upon traces of Ida
far sooner than by offering rewards for a
brooch which may possibly be all the time
safely hidden in a young lady's jewel-case.
I beg of you at once to withdraw the ad-
vertisement, whose only result may be to
lead us a long way out of our road and
land us in the mire at last.</p><p>
"Your affectionate Nephew,</p><p>
"SEFTON CULVERS."</p><p>
This letter, as ill-luck would have it, fell
into Juliet's hands before it reached her
father's. Recognising the handwriting,
she at once ran with it to her father's
study.</p><p>
"From Sefton, father; he may have
something to tell us," she exclaimed, as
she entered the room.</p><p>
Lord Culvers, in spite of his repeated
hourly assurances to his wife and daughter
that "things" were bound to come right
if they were only let alone, was far from
feeling confident that his words would be
verified, and would occasionally give way
to those little outbursts of irritability to
which placidly-disposed people are prone
when the tranquil surface of their exist-
ence is broken.</p><p>
"From Sefton-why wasn't it given me
before?" he said, irritably. "I've waited
in the whole morning for the post-now
where are my glasses?"</p><p>
Juliet picked up the glasses, and perched
them on her own little, straight nose.
"Now, if you don't worry, I'll read it to
you," she said, patronisingly. Then above
the rims of the glasses, without pause or
exclamation, she read aloud the letter from
beginning to end.</p><p>
Before Lord Culvers had time to pass
comment upon it, she had torn it in
two, and tossed it into the waste-paper
basket.</p><p>
"That's the only place for such a letter
as that," she said, taking off the spectacles,
and looking at her father with flashing
eyes. "Of course you won't dream of
replying to it, will you, father?" She spoke
very slowly, her small lips tightening, her
head very high in the air.</p><p>
"Eh, what, my dear?" said Lord Culvers,
turning round in his chair and facing her.
"I've hardly taken in what he says. I
should like to have read the letter once
again."</p><p>
"I'll repeat to you what he says," said
Juliet, in the same slow, quiet tones as
before; "he says you are to get a maid-a
maid, do you understand, to confirm my
words before you believe them. He
advises you to set a watch on your
daughter-some one, I suppose, to follow
her about and peep into her letters-and
asks you to take his word-his word after
doubting mine-that I know more than I
choose to tell!"</p><p>
"Eh, my dear, are you quite sure he
meant it to be taken that way?" asked
Lord Culvers.</p><p>
He sighed wearily.</p><p>
"It's such a painful affair! Why-why
doesn't Ida send us a line and end our
suspense?" He broke off again, then
looking full into Juliet's face as if hoping
there to read confirmation to his words, he
added: "No, no, my dear; I don't believe
that you are keeping anything back from
me-you couldn't be so heartless and
cruel."</p><p>
But it was said a little dubiously.</p><p>
"May I come in?" said a voice at that
moment. Then, without waiting for a
reply, the door opened, and Clive Redway
entered in the easy, familiar way which
his relations with the Culvers family
warranted.</p><p>
"I've come once more to beg permission
to start for Florence," he began, and then
broke off abruptly, looking from Juliet to
Lord Culvers, from Lord Culvers to Juliet,
the faces of both so evidently bearing the
marks of a disturbing subject of thought.</p><p>
Juliet was the first to explain: "A
letter has come from Sefton-there it is in
fragments in the waste-paper basket and
I am accused by him of knowing more than
I have told about Ida and her movements.
It's true in one way, I do know more than
I have told about Ida-and about Sefton
also. I could, if I had chosen, have told
you things that would have startled you."</p><p>
"Eh, what?" cried Lord Culvers, looking
scared.</p><p>
"I mean it. I could have told you that
he and Ida had some desperate quarrels.
Once Ida told him to his face that she
hated him-at least he told me so, and
begged me to make peace between them.
I made things straight, and then Ida to
seal their reconciliation paid off his debts-
all, at least, that he told her of."</p><p>
"Paid his debts!" echoed Lord Culvers,
his face showing simple blank astonish-
ment.</p><p>
"Yes," continued Juliet. "Do you re-
member three months back you paid Ida a
good deal of money-dividends or some-
thing or other-and told her she had better
collect her bills in and pay them? Very
well, those bills are still unpaid; every
penny of that money went to Sefton."</p><p>
"Is it possible?"</p><p>
"Yes. Ida rolled the bank-notes up
into a ball, and they played tennis with it
one afternoon. She won the game, and
then tossed the ball over to him as she left
the ground-I can see her now-just as
you would toss a ball to a lap-dog."</p><p>
All this time Clive had been standing
a little apart, his face growing whiter and
whiter, his brow knotting into an ugly
frown. Now he advanced a step, and laid
his hand on Juliet's arm.</p><p>
"And you let your sister marry such a
man as that—without a word of re-
monstrance," he said, in a low, constrained
tone.</p><p>
Juliet felt herself now on the defensive
all round. She held her head very high,
half-closed her eyes, and her face slightly—
very slightly—flushed.</p><p>
"Without a word of remonstrance!"
she repeated. "Off and on Ida and I had a
good many words about Sefton, though
whether they were words of remonstrance
is another thing. You see I liked him—I
dare say it was very absurd of me, but I did
like him, and more than once I said to Ida,
'What a pity it is you and I cannot change
places, and you marry Clive, and I marry
Sefton!'" This was meant as a counter-
thrust; but it didn't strike quite as she
meant it should.</p><p>
"I wish to Heaven—" broke in Clive,
hotly. Then he checked himself, biting
his lip to keep back words that would
have fallen with evil grace upon the ear of
his betrothed.</p><p>
Lord Culvers rose excitedly from his
chair.</p><p>
"It's too much! Too much!" he ex-
claimed, in a piteous tone. Why, why is
all this told me now when I am absolutely
powerless to remedy the evil? Gracious
Heaven what have I done that my life
should be filled with turmoil from year's
end to year's end?"</p><p>
As if magnetically drawn to it, he
finished his sentence with his eyes up-
lifted to a picture hanging over the
mantelpiece.</p><p>
It was that of the first Lady Culvers.
One glance at it sufficiently answered the
question what he had done that his life
should be filled with turmoil and worry.
The beautiful eyes and mouth, the very
turn of the head, the droop of the eyelid,
the crisp, curly hair, expressed in every
line and tint the vivacity, waywardness,
and love of fun which in Ida and Juliet
had fascinated their friends and lovers,
and had made their father's life off and on
a burthen to him.</p><p>
Juliet did not heed her father's out-
burst, She remained standing facing
Clive, and, narrowing her eyes, steadily
surveyed him.</p><p>
"It is very good of you to show so
much interest in Ida and her affairs," she
said, sarcastically; "but I do think a
journey to Florence to cross-question
Madame Verdi will be a work of superero-
gation. You had far better run over to
Paris and keep your eye on my cousin
Sefton."</p><p>
"What makes you say that?" asked
Clive, curtly, peremptorily.</p><p>
Her words struck a sudden and most
painful key-note to his mind. Was it
possible that Ida's disappearance was the
result of some prearranged plan between
herself and Sefton, and that the latter,
after all, had but acted the part of a
forlorn bridegroom? Did Juliet know of
any circumstances that gave warrant to
such a supposition, or was she merely
speaking as she often did-at random?
Or was it possible that this enigmatical
girl, after all, was seeking to divert
suspicion from herself by throwing it upon
Sefton, and thus pay him back with in-
terest for the insult he had offered her in
his letter?</p><p>
From his knowledge of Juliet's character
the last supposition seemed the most
feasible.</p><p>
He carefully watched her face as he
waited for his answer.</p><p>
But the piquant, girlish countenance
was as unreadable as the massive, stone-
cut features of the great Sphinx itself.</p><p>
She only slightly curled her lip.</p><p>
"From what I have told you of the
footing on which Ida and Sefton stood to
each other, you can form your own
opinion on the matter," she answered,
calmly.</p><p>
Lord Culvers laid his hand upon her
shoulder.</p><p>
"Juliet," he said, "you are driving me
to the verge of distraction with your hints
and prevarications."</p><p>
Clive's temper gave way utterly.</p><p>
"It is simply your duty," he said, hotly.
"You are bound to speak out—to tell
everything, small or great, that you know
of Ida's possible intentions."</p><p>
Juliet kept her coolness still.</p><p>
"If I don't know anything of her in-
tentions I can't speak out, as you call it,"
she answered, in perfectly level tones.
"And supposing I did know more than I
have said, and Ida had not given me per-
 mission to speak, not you, not my father
-no, not wild horses, even, should drag
it out of me!"


</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-6" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3><p>


Clive obtained a reluctant permission
from Lord Culvers, and set off for Florence,
to interrogate, under a seal of secrecy,
Madame Verdi as to her possible know-
ledge of Ida's movements.</p><p>
It must be admitted that his hopes did
not rise very high as to the results of his
journey. Nothing better, however, at the
moment presented itself, so it seemed a
thing to be done.</p><p>
Lord Calvers multiplied injunctions
to the young man as to caution and
secrecy.</p><p>
"You'll bear in mind," finally he said,
by way of summing up his hundred-and-one
instructions, "that Ida may write at any
moment. If not this week, next week,
perhaps, or the week after. And I don't
want tongues set going in Florence, any
more than in London, over my daughter's
eccentricities, and so increase difficulties in
the way of her return to her husband.
Heaven knows, it's bad enough to endure
such wild whims, without having all the
world talking about them."</p><p>
His powers of endurance were, however,
to be still farther taxed. Clive was no
sooner out of sight, so to speak, than
another "wild whim," as Lord Culvers
phrased it, was started—this time by
Juliet.</p><p>
With the season at its height, with her
card-rack literally stuffed with engagements,
and with Goodwood as yet in the far
distance, the young lady suddenly made
the announcement that London was stifling,
simply unendurable, and that she thought
it would be heavenly to throw over all
engagements and get back to Dering at
once.</p><p>
Exclamations from father and step-
mother greeted her announcement. The
former immediately rose and quitted the
room, knowing that "battle-royal"
between his wife and Juliet was bound to
ensue.</p><p>
He was right. The "battle-royal" in
this instance lasted about twenty minutes.
Lady Culvers retired from the contest
with a very red face and vibrating with
excitement; while Juliet, calm and cool as
ever, went up to her room, rang the bell
for her maid, and in a tranquil tone gave
many and minute directions as to the
packing of her wardrobe, and the "things"
to be supplied to it before she left
town.</p><p>
"We shall leave in a day or two, with-
out doubt," she added; "for whenever I
set my mind upon a thing it invariably
comes to pass."</p><p>
Assuredly the maid knew that well
enough, as also did every member of Lord
Culvers's household.</p><p>
It must be admitted that Fortune, in her
dealings with Lord Culvers, had justified
her reputation of never coming with both
hands full. With one hand she had
bestowed upon him health, wealth, and a
placid temper; with the other she had
filled his life with worries and anxieties
from year's end to year's end.</p><p>
Perhaps, however, if in addition to his
easy, placid temperament, he had been
endowed with an average amount of
common-sense and an eye for character,
one-half of his worries might have been
spared him. His first wife had captivated
him with her beauty and grace of manner,
and he had married her without so much
as a thought whether her disposition was
likely to harmonise with his own; his
second wife captivated him with a smooth
tongue and a sympathetic manner, and he
married her without a thought as to her
capability of doing that of which he felt
himself incapable-controlling his way-
ward, wilful young daughters.</p><p>
It was true that Miss Pigott had re-
mained longer than any other of the
governesses who, in a quick succession,
had tried and failed to "govern" the
young ladies; but he did not set his mind
to account for the circumstance, and so
failed to discover that the secret of Miss
Pigott's success with them lay in the fact
that she never openly opposed any piece
of folly they might plan, although
privately, to their father, she might con-
demn it vigorously.</p><p>
Miss Pigott was a wise woman in her
generation; she had come into Lord
Culvers's house with the intention of re-
maining in it, and had steered her course
accordingly. She had easily read the
characters of her pupils, and had found
out that, although they were quick-
tempered and self-willed, they were good-
hearted and generous; that, though they
might nearly worry the life out of her one
day with their vagaries, they would do
their best to make atonement the next by
loading her with presents and kindnesses
—provided always they were allowed full
license to carry out every whim that came
into their heads. With this secret in her
hands, she quickly saw her way to an easy
life and a good income; and when, later
on, by dint of soft words and a sympa-
thetic manner, she succeeded in ingratiating
herself into Lord Culvers's favour to the
extent of becoming his confidante on all
matters relating to his daughters, she saw
her way to something else beside a good
income—an assured position as Lord
Culvers's wife.</p><p>
In age she was about forty-five, in
appearance she was short and stout, with
a red face, and a quantity of white hair,
which she piled on top of her head-à la
Marie Antoinette - in order to increase
her height. Ida and Juliet would as soon
have thought of looking for their future
stepmother in one of the maids of the house-
hold as in their useful "Peggy." So it
came about that while they were alternately
worrying and caressing her, and in all
respects, as they imagined, turning her
round their little fingers, she was stealing
a march on them, and saying to herself:
"By-and-by the tables shall be turned,
and all debts be paid off with interest."</p><p>
When, however, after a certain cere-
mony in a certain West End church, the
tables were turned, and she began the
attempt to pay off her debts, she found it
was not quite so easy a task as she had
anticipated. Ida and Juliet, individually,
were a host in themselves; combined, they
appeared to be invincible. They always
seemed to be on the alert, and any attempt
of hers to assert herself, or to stand on
her dignity, was promptly nipped in the
bud. They would allow her to spend an
hour or so daily with the housekeeper,
and to regulate generally the household
routine, because that had been her pro-
vince as Miss Pigott in the days of her
general usefulness. When, however, it
came to the issuing or accepting of in-
vitations, the family exits from town or
country houses, the annual visits to the
moors, or to the sea, they simply ignored
her, carried their wishes, or, rather, their
commands, as of old to their father, bent
him to their will as easily as one can bend
a willow wand, and poor "Peggy," whether
she liked it or not, was obliged to follow
their lead.</p><p>
And they did it all so lightly and easily,
without so much as a flushed face or a
heightened voice. She, poor soul! with
much travail of thought, and many a sleep-
less night, would concoct some elaborate
plan for self-assertion, and the girls, with a
little curl of their lips, a little arching of
their brows, and some quick, bright speech,
would bring it all to nought in a moment,
and she would think herself fortunate if
she were allowed to acknowledge her
defeat, and withdraw from the scene with-
out having been made to look foolish before
a roomful of people.</p><p>
It was all in vain for her to appeal to
her husband. Alone with her he would
be sympathetic, and vow that his authority
should support hers. Brought face to
face with his daughters, however, he would
at once surrender mutely, and then get
out of the way as quickly as possible.</p><p>
The chances were that Miss Pigott
would never have become Lady Culvers if
Ida and Juliet had not, at their own re-
quest, gone without their chaperon on a
three months' visit to friends in Ireland,
thus giving their father time and oppor-
tunity not only to woo and to win his
bride, but also absolutely to fix his
wedding-day without let or hindrance.

</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-7" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3><p>

"O wild western light in a winter's sky,
I have watched your radiance flame and die,"</p>
<p class="continued">read Arthur Glynde, in the impassioned
tone which poets, as a rule, reserve for
their own productions.</p><p>
Juliet held up her hand.</p><p>
"No," she said, languidly, "I can't realise
a winter's sky on this sultry morning.
Besides, Peggy and I have just had-well,
a passage of arms, call it, and your second
line too painfully recalls Peggy's face a
moment ago."</p><p>
The two were seated in Lord Culvers's
study, a quiet, cool room, at the back of
the house, where they were not likely to
be disturbed by untimely callers.</p><p>
These tête-à-têtes with the young poet
had, in a measure, been forced upon
Juliet. With that craving for an audience
which goes hand in hand with authorship,
he had come to the house early one
morning with a roll of manuscript under
his arm, and, taking Lord Culvers by
surprise, had asked permission to read to
him "a stanza or two," as he was anxious
for the opinion of a competent critic as
to whether the poems were worthy of
publication.</p><p>
Lord Culvers had listened patiently for
twenty minutes, then he had recollected
an engagement.</p><p>
"Excuse me, Glynde," he had said,
noting that the packet of manuscript was
far from exhausted, "if you don't mind,
I'll send Juliet to hear the remainder.
She is a much better critic than I am—
reads Browning, you know—and her
opinion will be worth having."</p><p>
Arthur Glynde did not demur to the
change of audience, and from that day
forward, whenever he made his appearance
with a few quarto sheets under his arm,
Lord Culvers invariably found that he had
a pressing engagement, and resigned his
easy-chair to Juliet.</p><p>
Notwithstanding his poetic tendencies,
Arthur Glynde was a very general favourite
on account of his happy, genial temper.
In appearance he was fair and the reverse
of robust. His skin was white as a girl's,
and he had the large, dreamy, changeful
grey eye of the poet. His voice in speak-
ing was soft, low, pathetic.</p><p>
He laid down his manuscript at Juliet's
behest with a little sigh. He would so
much have preferred in fancy to watch a
winter's sunset "flame and die," than to
conjure up the image of the commonplace
"Peggy."</p><p>
"You came off victorious, I hope?" he
presently asked.</p><p>
"That goes without saying," answered
Juliet. "It was all about a letter of mine.
Peggy has been at her old tricks of opening
letters-by mistake, of course. 'The
Hon. Juliet Culvers' on the back of an
envelope could so easily be mistaken for
'Lady Culvers,' could it not?"</p><p>
And then she went on to relate a little
scene that, in one form or another, must
have been of daily occurrence in the
Culvers household. She had come down
late that morning, and on seating herself
at the breakfast-table, had seen in Lady
Culvers's hand a letter in the writing of a
girl friend-one of those "greatest friends
of Ida's" whose intimacy the stepmother
would have fain put an end to. Before, how-
ever, Juliet had time to claim her property,
Lady Culvers, with a sweet and very
humble apology, had handed the letter to
her, saying that she had mistaken it for one
of her own.</p><p>
"It's a mistake that has occurred before,
Peggy, and that I beg will not happen
again, or the consequences will be
serious," Juliet had replied, in lofty,
stately fashion.</p><p>
Upon this Lord Culvers very mildly
had expressed a wish that Juliet would
cease to address her stepmother by the
obnoxious nickname.</p><p>
"Doesn't she like it?" Juliet had said,
half closing her eyes, and surveying Lady
Culvers. "Then I'll address her as
Margaret, it'll do just as well-it'll suggest
the other name to her mind."</p><p>
A threat which the young lady had not
hesitated to put into execution.</p><p>
"I think, after all," she continued to
Arthur Glynde as she finished her narration,
"pussy would be a far more appropriate
nickname-she is so emphatically of the
cat tribe. Don't you know 'The velvet
paw, and the hidden claw'? Oh, how
stifling it is this morning-please give me
that fan."</p><p>
Arthur did not give her the fan; he pre-
ferred to retain it, and save her the
trouble of using it.</p><p>
Juliet smiled up at him as he bent over
the capacious and very easy chair in which
she reclined.</p><p>
"Thank you, that is delightful. Now
if I had asked Clive to hand me a fan, he'd
have done it nothing more. It would
never have occurred to him to save me the
trouble of using it."</p><p>
This was dangerous ground to take with
a man who would have given ten years off
his life to stand in Clive's shoes.
But dangerous ground had always a
strong attraction for Juliet.</p><p>
Arthur's face changed, his arm fell to his
side.</p><p>
"That man has more luck than he
deserves," he said, in a low tone.</p><p>
"I don't think he appreciates his luck
either, and sometimes I think I'll take it
away from him," she said, drooping her full
white lids till the shadow of her long
lashes fell upon her cheek.</p><p>
"And bestow it upon another man!"
cried Arthur. And then before she could
realise what was coming, he was down on
his knees beside her with a passionate
declaration of love on his lips.</p><p>
Possibly, however, if she had known
what was coming, she would have made no
effort to prevent it. She took his pro-
testations and despairing entreaties very
calmly.</p><p>
"Please get up off your knees," she said;
"the words were no sooner out of my
mouth than I regretted them. After all, I
prefer being engaged to Clive!"</p><p>
Arthur rose from his knees ruefully.
He folded his arms, and stood a little
distance off looking down on her; his fair,
boyish features telling only too plainly his
tale of love and disappointment.</p><p>
Juliet smiled up at him again.</p><p>
"Oh, don't look so rueful-there's a
bright side to everything," she said,
cheeringly.</p><p>
"A bright side to this!" he exclaimed.</p><p>
"Yes. Don't you see so long as I'm
engaged to Clive I want to marry some
one else? But the chances are, if I broke
off my engagement with him, that I should
immediately fall in love with him all
over again. Oh, no! Pray—pray don't go
down on the carpet again."</p><p>
In order the more effectually to prevent
such a catastrophe, she left her chair, and
walked away to the window. It opened
over a miniature rockery planted with
ferns and sweet-scented flowers. She
plucked a spray of heliotrope, and began
toying with it.</p><p>
"Clive has never said to me one-quarter
of the sweet things that you said just now,"
she said, softly, meditatively.</p><p>
Arthur abruptly turned his back on her,
and, as if afraid to venture once more
within range of her coquetries, looked for
his hat and made for the door.</p><p>
"There's not a man living who could
stand it," he muttered, almost fiercely.</p><p>
"You've left your 'Wild Western Light'
under the table," she said, not moving
from her place at the window.</p><p>
He stooped to gather the loose sheets of
manuscript which, in his ardour, he had let
fall.</p><p>
"Arthur," she said, in a low, persuasive
tone, "are you in a great hurry to go? I
wanted to ask you to do something for
me."</p><p>
Down went the loose sheets of manu-
script to the floor once more, and back to
her side he went in a moment.</p><p>
"Do something for you!" he exclaimed.
"What is there I would not do? You
know I would lay down my life for you
any hour, any day!"</p><p>
"Oh, it's nothing half so bad as that,"
she answered, smilingly; "I wouldn't
trouble you at all if I had a brother, or a
cousin, or any one of whom I could ask a
favour."</p><p>
She seemed utterly to ignore the fact
that she had a betrothed lover.</p><p>
Arthur reminded her of it.</p><p>
"You forget," he said, bitterly, "the
man who doesn't appreciate his good luck,
and who doesn't know how to say sweet
things to you."</p><p>
"Clive, do you mean? Oh, it's some-
thing I couldn't possibly ask him to do."</p><p>
Arthur's face flushed with a real happi-
ness. For the moment he felt himself
exalted on a pinnacle to which his rival
had never attained.</p><p>
Only for a moment, however. Juliet
knew how to read the light of pride in
his eyes, and forthwith set herself to
quench it.</p><p>
"I ought to apologise for troubling you
in this way," she said, sweetly; "but since
Stacy-she was my maid for ever so many
years, you know-married, there is no one
I can ask to do anything for me."</p><p>
The flush of happiness died out of his
face. So then, after all, he only stood on
a level with Stacy, the maid, in his
goddess's estimation. He drew just one
step nearer to her.</p><p>
"Juliet," he said, in low, pained tones,
"if you were not so exquisitely, so daintily
beautiful, I could find it in my heart
to say bitter things to you."</p><p>
He was right in his estimation of her
beauty. She was lovely, with a grace that
might well be called exquisite and dainty.
To his fancy, as he stood there facing her,
the exquisiteness and daintiness had never
been more markedly apparent.</p><p>
She was dressed in some light summer
robe of the palest possible shade of mother-of-
pearl green, a shade that threw into vivid
relief the delicate colouring of her skin, the
warm brown of her hair so tightly coiled
around her small head. The upper panes
of the window at which she stood were
filled in with a mosaic of painted glass,
whose varied tints the quivering morning
sunlight threw like a changeful rainbow
about her light draperies, and on the
ground at her feet.</p><p>
She gave a little sigh.</p><p>
"I suppose, then, I am to understand
that you would rather not be troubled
with my requests?" she presently said.</p><p>
He did not at once reply. He was still
feasting his eyes on her loveliness, enjoy-
ing the beauty of lines and tints in a
manner possible only to an artist or a
poet.</p><p>
"Your name by rights should have
been Iris," he said, at length, under his
breath, and almost solemnly.</p><p>
And forthwith his muse awakened, and
began to sing in his ears some wonderful
invocation to the rainbow messenger of
the gods, which no doubt, in due course,
would take its form in the orthodox
iambics.</p><p>
Juliet had to repeat her question before
she could get it answered.</p><p>
"Refuse!" he exclaimed. "Refuse you
anything! Talk of the sea refusing to
follow the moon before you talk of my
refusing request of yours."</p><p>
"Oh, but there's nothing half so com-
plicated as tides and moons about what I
want done," said the girl, with a light
laugh. "I only want an advertisement
inserted in all the English and Continental
papers-all the papers, that is, that ladies
and gentlemen would be likely to read."</p><p>
The young man looked his astonish-
ment. Then, recollecting the reputation
which Juliet and Ida had for careless
custody of their brooches and bracelets,
asked:</p><p>
"Is it emeralds or diamonds this
time?"</p><p>
"Neither," answered Juliet. "And you
must not ask me a single question. And,
above all, you mustn't let a single person
know-no, not even your own mother-
that either you or I have had anything to
do with the advertisement. Promise
me."</p><p>
"I promise a thousand times over. You
may rely on me as you might—" He
paused a moment, and then added, with
as much of sarcastic bitterness as he was
capable of levelling at his goddess: "On
your maid Stacy."</p><p>
"Ah, you don't know how much that
says," said Juliet, in no wise disconcerted.
"Stacy was true as steel, and "- this
added with a little laugh—"pliable as
whalebone."</p><p>
"I'll try and be the steel and whale-
bone combined," he said, taking up his
hat, as if ready to depart that very
minute.</p><p>
"Oh, please wait," she exclaimed;
"there's no such hurry; I don't want it
inserted to-day, or to-morrow, but on the
very day we leave town. I suppose you
know that we go to Dering at the begin-
ning of next week?"</p><p>
Into the dim distance at once vanished
all the pleasant meetings with his divinity
at balls and theatres, dinners and garden-
parties, which he was wont to say were
his daily manna while he sojourned in the
wilderness.</p><p>
"Yes, I've teased father into it; I knew
I should if I persevered. Peggy was
furious at first—I knew it, because her
manner grew so alarmingly sweet and in-
sinuating; but it was all of no use. I
told father that everything had lost its
charm since Ida had married, that I was
pining for country air, and, finally, that
my boxes were packed, and that if they
didn't come with me I should start off by
myself. That made them give in at once.
I think they had visions of my turning
the Hall upside down in their absence, in-
augurating tennis-parties without chaperons,
and so forth."</p><p>
"The beginning of next week!" was all
that he could find to say, in a tone almost
comic from its overweight of pathos.</p><p>
"Yes. And the very day we leave
town I want my advertisement to appear.
Pray, pray don't forget! It is most im-
portant. Yes, I know I haven't told you
yet what the advertisement is to be. I'll
write it down, so that there'll be no
mistake."</p><p>
She went to her father's writing-table,
and wrote on the back of an envelope just
five words, which she handed to him.</p><p>
Those five words were:</p><p>
"Sub signo et sub rosa."


</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-8" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h3><p>


The "beginning of next week" saw
Clive on his way back from Florence, and
Lord Culvers and his family comfortably
settled in their country house; but it
brought never a word of tidings of or from
the missing bride.</p><p>
There could be no doubt about it, Lord
Culvers was beginning to get seriously
uneasy; his geniality of manner appeared
to be departing from him; he began to
grow silent and abstracted; he would fall
occasionally into deep reveries, from which
he would awaken with a start, and give
short, sharp answers to any one who
chanced to address him.</p><p>
Juliet also seemed to be losing a little of
her brightness. During the last few days
of their stay in town, she had taken
interest in nothing save the preparations
for their departure.</p><p>
If the truth were told, their leaving
town, after all, came as something of a
relief to Lord Culvers. Wild and un-
reasonable as Juliet's proposal had at first
seemed to him, he was at heart un-
commonly glad to get away from the
embarrassing enquiries of a large circle of
friends as to the bride and bridegroom,
who were supposed to be at that moment
at the height of their felicity among the
Alpine lakes and mountains.</p><p>
On the morning after their arrival at
Dering, a letter was received from Clive,
which told that his journey to Florence
had been a lost one, Madame Verdi having
neither seen nor heard of Ida, and knowing
nothing whatever of her intentions.</p><p>
The letter, although addressed to Juliet,
was brief and formal in tone, decidedly
not the sort of missive that a betrothed
damsel would read in an ecstasy of smiles
and tears, carry about with her all day
long, and hide under her pillow at
night.</p><p>
Neither its brevity nor its formality,
however, seemed to trouble Juliet. She
took it at once to her father, and read it
aloud to him, word for word. There was
added a postscript to the letter, in which
Clive said that, mindful of a certain
suggestion of hers, he intended to break
his return journey at Paris, and would be
glad if she would send to him at the
Hotel Bristol the present address of her
cousin, Captain Calvers.</p><p>
"What has he got into his head now?"
said Lord Culvers, irritably, turning to his
daughter. "Juliet, take my word for it,
if those two men meet, mischief will come
of it. What could have possessed you to
make such a foolish suggestion?"</p><p>
It was beginning to dawn upon him that
Clive was throwing, not too much energy,
but energy of not quite the right kind into
his search for Ida.</p><p>
"Dear love, is it possible that such a
suggestion came from you?" said Lady
Culvers, looking up from her embroidery-
frame, and throwing a glance at her
husband, which said, plainly enough, “Oh,
these girls, when will they cease to get us
into hot water?"</p><p>
Juliet narrowed her eyes and looked at
her. Then, with polite circumlocution,
told her to mind her own business.</p><p>
"Embroidery, Peggy," she said, "re-
quires an undivided attention. Otherwise
you will be turning your daisies into
dandelions."</p><p>
Then, before "Peggy" could recover
herself, or her father find words in which
to mark his sense of her employment of
the objectionable nickname, the girl had
taken her hat from a side table and had
wandered out into the garden, through
one of the open French windows.</p><p>
"Don't expect me back till luncheon,"
she said to her father, as she passed.
"I'm going to have a long talk with
Goody."</p><p>
This was said by way of adding fuel to
fire.</p><p>
"Goody," or, to call her by her right
name, Margaret Pearson, had been in her
young days nurse to the first Lady Culvers,
and subsequently had officiated in the
same capacity to Lady Culvers's twin
daughters. Her devotion to her mistress
and to her mistress's children had known
no limit. The latter, so to speak, had
never grown out of her care. When they
quitted the nursery for the school-room,
she had acted guardian-angel to them still;
and woe to the governess who was rash
enough to assert her authority against
"Goody's."</p><p>
She could never bring herself to forgive
Lord Culvers for his second marriage; and
when the new Lady Culvers wished to
take the management of affairs entirely
into her own hands, it became necessary
to find a cottage for Goody, and to pension
her off. Otherwise, the house would have
been kept in an even worse state of
ferment than it actually was, for the girls
espoused Goody's cause heartily, and
thoroughly enjoyed playing the champion
to her at their stepmother's expense.</p><p>
They were in the habit of styling
Goody's cottage "The Sanctuary," and
their "refuge in times of persecution."
That meant that to Goody were carried
reports of their skirmishes and their
victories, their flirtations and their love-
affairs, in the full assurance that all would
be viewed with eyes that could not see
fault or folly in her darling nurslings.</p><p>
Juliet had a pleasant half-mile down
shady lanes to go before she could reach
her "sanctuary" that morning.</p><p>
A quaint, pretty little cottage it was,
with a great, glorious tea-rose smothering
its porch, running riot up its red-brick
front, and peeping, unrebuked, into every
one of its diamond-paned windows. Sur-
rounding the cottage was a garden planted
thick with old-fashioned flowers, where
sweet-peas and mignonette mixed their
fragrance with that of cabbage-roses and
carnations, and tall sunflowers stood like
sentinels on either side of the rose-covered
porch.</p><p>
A great, sleepy, black cat aroused itself
from a bed of purple thyme, and came
down the path to meet the young lady
as she swung back the garden gate.
From out the open cottage door came a
bright-faced little country lass-Goody's
great-niece-dragging by one arm a much-
battered wooden doll; and following her
came Goody herself, tall, trim, and comely,
in lilac cotton gown, and white cap and
kerchief.</p><p>
The greeting between nurse and nurs-
ling was more than cordial-affectionate.
"No end to tell you, Goody. Let us
go into your little parlour; it's too hot to
talk out here," said Juliet, putting her
arm within the old body's. "No, don't
ask after Clive, he's out of favour now,"
she said, as she seated herself in the cool
little room, as fragrant of flowers as the
outside garden. "He has had his day,
and his sun has set. By-and-by I shall
talk to you about some one else; but not
yet awhile. No, and you mustn't ask
after Sefton-he's out of favour, too. I
used to like him; but I hate-yes, hate
him now. To-day I'm going to talk
about Ida-no one but Ida from first to
last.”</p><p>
This was tantamount to granting Goody
license to ask any amount of questions
upon a subject that lay very near her
heart "darling Miss Ida's wedding-
day."</p><p>
Juliet answered them every one in her
liveliest fashion, and with many a little
passing touch of humour at the expense of
"Peggy," and some of "Peggy's" friends.
Then she glanced at the little girl playing
in a corner with her big wooden doll.</p><p>
"Send her away, Goody," she whispered,
"I've something very special to say to you
now."</p><p>
So the little one was sent into the
garden, the cottage door was closely shut,
and for nearly an hour Juliet held undis-
turbed conference with her humble friend.</p><p>
Through the open window, however,
there were borne now and again to the
little girl, odd fragments of their talk.</p><p>
"Ida and Sefton had a desperate
quarrel over-night," once she heard Juliet
say.</p><p>
And as the child stood on tip-toes to
peep at an Emperor butterfly which had
settled on the great golden disc of a tall
sunflower, there came to her the words
from Juliet in a slightly contemptuous tone:</p><p>
"Peggy has begun her old trick of
peeping into my letters, and—"</p><p>
But here Goody's voice interposed with,
"Hush, my dearie, not so loud," and then
Goody's hand showing amid the flowers on
the sill closed the casement.




</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-9" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3><p>



Juliet went sauntering home under the
shadow of the high hedgerows, pink now
with trailing wild rose, and half-opened
buds of honeysuckle.</p><p>
It was a delicious day, with sun enough
to suggest the tropics, breeze enough to
make one think of the Alps. The air
seemed absolutely laden with flower-scents;
a distant sharpening of a scythe, the far-
away tinkling of a sheep-bell, were the only
sounds that broke the stillness of the
summer air.</p><p>
Juliet had many subjects for thought
that morning. A little absent-mindedly
she turned the corner of a lane that led her
at least a mile out of her way, and brought
her back to the Hall by the park gates
opening into the high-road.</p><p>
A carriage and pair on the point of
driving out pulled up at her approach.</p><p>
"At last!" exclaimed a voice from out of
the carriage. "You naughty child, where
have you been?"</p><p>
Juliet looked up to see a very tiny, very
golden-haired, and very fashionably attired
lady closing her sunshade, and extending
a hand in greeting.</p><p>
"Mrs. Glynde!" she exclaimed, "have
you dropped out of the clouds? When,
where, and how did you get here?"</p><p>
"I caught the first train down this
morning, arrived at Dering station three
hours ago, called at the MacNamaras' on
my way here, and they were good enough
to let me have their carriage. No, I won't
go back to the house; I'm sure your father
and mother—"</p><p>
"Wha-t?" exclaimed Juliet, making
round eyes at her.</p><p>
"Oh, I beg your pardon-your father
and Lady Culvers, I mean-have had more
than enough of my society; they have
been entertaining me for the past hour and
a half. If you don't mind I'll take a stroll
round the park with you, I've something
very special to tell you."</p><p>
She alighted as she spoke.</p><p>
Juliet led the way down a cool avenue
where young lime-trees arched their boughs
above, and tall bracken waved its graceful
fronds on either side of a stretch of green-
sward, smooth and springy with its under-
growth of moss.</p><p>
"I'm miserable, broken-hearted, deso-
late!" exclaimed Mrs. Glynde, so soon as
she saw that she and Juliet had the solitude
to themselves.</p><p>
But whatever her misery and desolate-
ness might have caused her to neglect, it
assuredly was not her toilet. That sug-
gested, alike in its elaborateness and finish,
the most artistic of Parisian modistes, and
the most skilful and assiduous of maids.</p><p>
Mrs. Glynde's friends were thoroughly
aware of the fact that at its lowest com-
putation her age could not be far off fifty.
Dress, however, and the use of toilet
accessories, reduced it in appearance to
about five-and-thirty.</p><p>
"I could easily make myself look as
young as she does, if I chose to spend a
fortune on cosmetics," sometimes her
friends would say ill-temperedly to their
husbands.</p><p>
"I would much rather you did not, my
dear," those husbands as a rule would
reply.</p><p>
But, all the same, when the choice was
offered to them, they generally preferred
Mrs. Glynde's society to that of the more
sober-minded matrons, for in conversation
she was invariably lively and entertaining,
and in manner sympathetic.</p><p>
Juliet racked her brains to find out
what could have broken Mrs. Glynde's
heart.</p><p>
"Let me think. You have seen some
one in a bonnet that must have been
'created' in Paris at the same time as
yours—twin-sister to it, in fact."</p><p>
"Juliet, it's far worse than that. It's
about Arthur."</p><p>
"Oh-h! only touches you at second
hand, then. He can't find a rhyme to
some pet word of his, and he scorns to
pilfer one, I suppose?"</p><p>
"Cruel child! Do you think a trifle
like that would have made me get up at six
o'clock in the morning, and sent me flying
down into the wilderness when I'm due
to-day at a luncheon, a flower-show, a
dinner, and a ball afterwards, at which the
Royalties will be present? Give me
credit for devotion to Arthur, if for nothing,
else."</p><p>
"Oh, yes, I'll give you credit for
devotion to Arthur, and for a good many
other things," answered Juliet, lightly, and
with a side glance at the golden hair which
appeared to have "Auricomus" written
upon it.</p><p>
"What sacrifice will not a mother make
on behalf of a son, and an only son, like
my Arthur?" continued the lady.</p><p>
"What, indeed! Luncheons, flower-
shows, dinners, balls, and Royalties in-
cluded."</p><p>
"Juliet, you have no heart. You are a
second Lady Clara Vere de Vere, and I
believe if my poor Arthur were going to
commit suicide, you'd—-”</p><p>
"Hold your course without remorse,
and slay him with a vacant stare,' or some-
thing like that. But is he contemplating
anything so terrible as bullets, or knives,
or prussic acid?"</p><p>
"Something quite as terrible. Only
yesterday he came to me and announced |
his intention of joining an expedition to
Central Africa. I have lost heart, I have
lost hope!' he said. 'Something I must
do to fill my life!'"</p><p>
She ended her sentence with a heavy
sigh.</p><p>
"Oh-h, is that all he is going to do?"
And Juliet drew a long breath that
seemed to imply surprise and disappoint-
ment commingled.</p><p>
"All! What could be worse?" cried
Mrs. Glynde, despairingly.</p><p>
"A great many things. Now if I were
Mrs. Glynde, and Arthur were my son, I
should feel that it would be a good deal
worse if he had come to me and announced
his intention of-well, going into Parlia-
ment, or of playing first violin in the Albert
Hall orchestra, because I should know that
in either case his intentions would be
doomed to disappointment.”</p><p>
"Juliet!"</p><p>
"I should, indeed. But a trip to Central
Africa Why, anybody can accomplish
that. Is it a Gaze's or a Cook's excursion
party?"</p><p>
"You have a heart of stone! But I
can't believe you understand me. This is
an expedition got up by a number of
dreadful men the Harkers, the Ottleys,
and that set-who have made up their
minds to 'penetrate into the interior,' as
they call it. That means go farther into
the dreadful hole than anybody has ever
yet gone, and get eaten up by flies, or
cannibals, or lions—"</p><p>
"Or ostriches, or monkeys. They all
live in that part of the world, don't they?"</p><p>
"Make as much fun as you like, Juliet;
but, take my word for it, if Arthur goes
out with these dreadful men, he'll never
come back again."</p><p>
"Well, but other people go, and come
back again, and seem to like it rather than
otherwise. I should enjoy a trip there
myself. I think I'll get my future husband
to promise to take me there for our
wedding tour."</p><p>
The last words were said with a side-
glance at Mrs. Glynde to see their effect.</p><p>
They acted like a match to tinder.
Mrs. Glynde came to a sudden standstill
on the smooth greensward, her face the
colour of the scarlet sunshade she carried.</p><p>
"Juliet," she said, excitedly, "that en-
gagement is still 'on,' then? I hoped-I
was told, that is, by friends of yours a day
or two ago, that they felt confident it
would all 'come to nothing'; one need
only to see you and Mr. Redway together
to make sure of it, they said."</p><p>
Juliet flushed a little.</p><p>
"Dear me! How good it is of people
to take such an interest in my affairs!
Will you kindly tell those friends of mine
that I intend to be engaged to Clive Red-
way till-" She broke off for a moment,
exclaiming: "Hark! Was that a cuckoo?
What a belated little bird! Surely it's
time it went back to Central Africa."</p><p>
"Juliet, finish what you were going to
say,' cried Mrs. Glynde, excitedly. "Till
when do you mean to be engaged to Clive
Redway? Can you fix a date for the end-
ing of your engagement?"</p><p>
"Why, of course-till my wedding-day,
I was going to say," answered Juliet,
coolly.</p><p>
Whatever might be her opinion of
Arthur Glynde, she had only one opinion
of Arthur Glynde's mother. The little
lady had a reputation, which Juliet was
not inclined to gainsay, of being one of
the cleverest match-makers that Society
numbered in its ranks. She had married
off in succession three penniless nieces to
wealthy scions of aristocratic houses; and
now she was spreading her toils to catch
an heiress and a beauty for her son.</p><p>
"How can one small head carry such a
multiplicity of plots?" thought the girl,
with a far-off memory of the parson of the
"loveliest village of the plain."</p><p>
"Till your wedding-day!" repeated Mrs.
Glynde, slowly. "Then my poor Arthur
has no chance?"</p><p>
She felt for her pocket-handkerchief, and
for a moment it went to her eyes.</p><p>
With her handkerchief, however, she
pulled from her pocket a half-sheet of
paper. With a sudden movement she
stooped and picked it up.</p><p>
"You ought to see this, Juliet," she
said, handing it to the girl. "I picked it
up yesterday in Arthur's den; it speaks
for itself. If you read it you'll see how
deeply in earnest my poor boy is."</p><p>
Juliet unfolded the half-sheet, and read
as follows:</p><p>
My love hath solemn eyes,
Eyes that would make you weep,
Bright with the light of stars
That midnight vigil keep.</p><p>
My love hath soft, cool hands,
To smooth hot, aching brows,
Soft as a plumèd breast,
Cooler than winter snows.</p><p>
My love hath silent feet,
Silent as passing breath
Or sailing summer cloud;
My love's sweet name is-death.</p><p>
Juliet folded and returned the half-sheet
to Mrs. Glynde.</p><p>
"Eyes, hands, feet! Now why did he
leave out the finger-nails? Tell him to
add another verse something like this:</p><p>
My love hath inky nails,
Nails that would make you weep.</p><p class="continued">
Oh, what a lovely parody could be made
out of it!"</p><p>
Mrs. Glynde, with a sigh, put the verses
into her pocket again.</p><p>
"I can see how it will end," she said,
sadly. "My poor boy will go to Africa
and never come back. You and I will
say good-bye to him, and never see him
again!"</p><p>
"Oh, not at all," said Juliet, cheerfully.
"If I go for my wedding-trip to Central
Africa, we should be sure to meet-don't
you know, just as Stanley and Livingstone
met in the middle of the desert. And
he'd exclaim 'Juliet,' and I should reply,
'I'm no longer to be called Juliet, but-'
Ah! I wonder what my married name
would be!"</p><p>
Again Mrs. Glynde came to a standstill
on the greensward.</p><p>
"Why, you said only a minute ago that
you intended to marry Mr. Redway."</p><p>
"I said so!" exclaimed Juliet, her
manner expressing the utmost of astonish-
ment.</p><p>
"You said your engagement to him
would end only on your wedding-day!"</p><p>
"Ah, yes, that's another thing. I
mean to be engaged to him till the very
last moment, and then I shall be sure to
marry—some one else. I couldn't endure
being engaged to the man I meant to
marry."</p><p>
Mrs. Glynde's face grew radiant.</p><p>
"Ah, I see! I understand! Juliet,
you are one of the most enigmatic of girls;
but I think I'm beginning to understand
you. Now will you send me back with a
message for Arthur?"</p><p>
"Oh yes, with a dozen, if you like!
Tell him, from me, on no account to-"
again she broke off. "I'm confident
there's the cuckoo again! It's quite too
ridiculous!"</p><p>
"On no account to start on this miser-
able expedition-it sets off on the twentieth
of next month," said the eager mother.</p><p>
"On no account to attempt to enter
Parliament, or the Albert Hall orchestra;
perhaps he might pass muster at the
'Saturday Pop—' Oh, there's a Camber-
well Beauty, I declare! I wonder if I can
catch it," and off she started in pursuit
of the brilliant butterfly, leaving her com-
panion to get over her chagrin as best she
might.</p><p>
When she came back presently a little
out of breath, Mrs. Glynde, with a very
grave face, was retracing her steps in the
direction of the park gates.</p><p>
"I see it is useless for me to stay any
longer," she said; "will you like to keep
these verses of Arthur's?—I don't suppose
he will ever send you any more."</p><p>
"Ah, yes, I may as well keep them.
Tell him if I don't see him again I will
write, 'In memoriam of A. G.' across the
top of the page; but--"</p><p>
"Juliet, I shall take no messages to my
poor boy that will drive him to despair.
If you have anything to say that will give
him hope I'll carry that."</p><p>
"You wouldn't let me finish what I was
going to say-I declare there is that
lovely butterfly again!"</p><p>
And once more she would have started
in pursuit if Mrs. Glynde had not
absolutely taken both of her hands in hers
and kept her rooted to the spot.</p><p>
"I insist on knowing what you were
going to say," she exclaimed. "I will not
stand here to be tortured as you torture
Arthur."</p><p>
"Dear me," said Juliet, in mild astonish-
ment; "first you won't let me speak, and
then you hold both my hands, and 'insist'
on my saying what I was going to say
when you prevented me."</p><p>
"You said if you didn't see him again
you would write 'In memoriam of A. G.'
across the top of his verses; but—" said
Mrs. Glynde, anxious to bring her back to
the point.</p><p>
"But it will give me very great pleasure if
he'll come and see me here on the twenty-
first of next month. That was all I had
to say when you interrupted me."</p><p>
"All!" cried the delighted Mrs. Glynde.
"It is quite enough! I understand!
Good-bye to the expedition that starts on
the twentieth, if you want to see him on
the twenty-first."</p><p>
She tip-toed, and insisted on kissing
Juliet on both cheeks-an embrace which
Juliet received very coolly. Then she
quickened her footsteps. "I must get back
as soon as possible," she said, "I told the
MacNamaras I wouldn't keep their carriage
for more than an hour, and I've kept it for
nearly three."</p><p>
It was easy to see that her haste to get
back was stimulated by her fear lest the
wayward girl might, in another minute, so
qualify her message as to render it not
worth delivering.</p><p>
In order the more effectually to prevent
such a catastrophe, she hastily turned the
talk on other topics-a recent wedding,
the newest mode in hair-dressing, the
latest piece of gossip that had reached her
ears.</p><p>
"The way people talk is beyond every-
thing-no one is let alone in these days,"
she said; "do you know, Juliet, actually
last night when I was dining at the Adeanes,
I was asked-you'll scarcely believe it-if
there was any truth in the report that Ida
and her husband had quarrelled on their
way to the station, and that Captain
Culvers had gone off to Paris alone, and
that Ida had returned home, and was
staying with you at Dering?"</p><p>
She said this with her eyes fixed on
Juliet's face.</p><p>
And if she had spoken out all the truth,
she would have said not only that she had
been asked the question at her dinner-
party of the previous night, but that her
own maid that very morning, as she
had assisted in her toilet, had told
her of Captain Culvers's sudden return
to Glynde Lodge without his bride, and of
Lady Culvers's strange story to account for
the fact.</p><p>
Juliet's calm, pale face gave no sign.</p><p>
"It's perfectly true, every word of it,"
she answered, coolly; "Ida is at the present
moment at the Hall-in a padded room on
the top storey, contrived expressly for our
family lunatics of a previous generation. And
Sefton has been sent to prison for marrying
her, whence in due course he'll emerge like
a butterfly from a chrysalis, shake his
beautiful wings, and float straight away to
heaven. Good-bye, Mrs. Glynde, give my
love to Lily MacNamara. Tell her next
time she wears that apple-green dress of
hers not to put so much Condy's flaid to
her hair. The contrast of tints is quite
too appalling!"




</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-10" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h3><p>



The next day was to bring news of a
startling kind to the Hall. Juliet was
spending a lazy morning feeding the water-
fowl on the lake, and making believe to
read "Red Cotton Nightcap Country,"
when a message was brought to her that
Lord Culvers wished to see her in his study
at once. She went back to find her father
waiting at the hall-door for her with an
open letter in his hand, and a look on his
face which said "something to tell"
plainly as words could.</p><p>
"News of Ida's brooch," he said, so soon
as her feet were inside the door. Then he
led the way into his study, spread the
letter before her, and bade her read it.</p><p>
It came under cover from Messrs. Hunt
and Locke, of Chancery Lane. The writer
was an English priest-Baldwin by name
who officiated at the church of the
Carmelite Friars, in the Rue Bellarmine,
Paris, He stated that on the previous
Sunday at the midday celebration of mass
a diamond brooch, answering in all respects
to the one described in the advertisement
in the daily papers, had been dropped into
the offertory bag. By whom-whether by
a penitent as an offering, or by a thief in
order to escape detection-he could not
say. The church was crowded at the
time, and the brother who had collected
the alms had not noticed anything unusual
in the manner of giving in any part of the
church.</p><p>
The writer concluded by giving his
address in the Rue Bellarmine, and stating
that the brooch was in his possession
awaiting identification from its owner.</p><p>
Juliet's face grew as white as her father's
as she read the letter.</p><p>
"Oh, father, what does it mean-what
can it mean?" she cried, in a quaking
voice, as she read the last word. "Ida has
not dropped that brooch into the bag, why
should she?"</p><p>
Her thoughts flew to the worst.</p><p>
"Can something terrible have happened
to her, and some thief have—Oh, no,
no, it cannot be!" And then she broke
down utterly, and sank into a chair,
covering her face with her hands.</p><p>
Lord Culvers, though scarcely less agi-
tated, did his best to calm her.</p><p>
"Now, now, Juliet," he said, tremulously,
"if you give way like this you'll unnerve
me and make me unfit for what I've got to
do."</p><p>
Neither of his daughters were of the
weeping, hysteric order; tears with them,
after childish days were past, were of rare
occurrence; when they did break down
it meant something more than a headache
or an attack of nerves, and carried weight
accordingly.</p><p>
For one thing, her outburst of grief
entirely dispelled from his mind any
lingering suspicion that she was in some
way cognizant of her sister's movements.</p><p>
Juliet calmed herself with difficulty.</p><p>
"What have you done? What are you
going to do?" she asked.</p><p>
"Well, my dear, you see I must start
for Paris at once, in order to identify the
brooch. I've already ordered the carriage,
and if I catch the next train from here I
shall save the night boat, and-"</p><p>
"It may not be Ida's brooch after all,"
interrupted Juliet, eagerly.</p><p>
"Exactly, my dear," said Lord Culvers,
almost cheerfully, and glad to have a
chance of putting a bright face on matters.
"Before we allow ourselves to imagine
that the worst-the very worst has hap-
pened, we must make sure that the brooch
is Ida's. I've telegraphed to Sefton,
and-"</p><p>
"Oh, why not have telegraphed to
Clive he has a thousand times more
energy!" again interrupted the girl, feeling
instinctively that the one man was as a rock
and the other but as a reed to depend
upon.</p><p>
"Now, now, my dear," answered her
father, deprecatingly, "Ida's husband is
the right person to act as my coadjutor in
this matter. But will you come with me?
-that is, if you can get ready in five
minutes-I shall be glad to have you."</p><p>
Juliet thought for a moment.</p><p>
"No," she answered, slowly, "I must stay
here for the present. I may have to follow
you, I cannot tell."</p><p>
"Well, well," answered Lord Culvers, a
little puzzled, "it doesn't matter much. I
take it no one can identify this brooch but
me; there's a flaw in one of the emeralds
in the spray that will enable me to swear
to it, and-"</p><p>
"But, father," interrupted Juliet, "you
won't try to hush the matter up any
longer, will you? You must-you will
apply to the police now. We must move
heaven and earth to end this suspense."</p><p>
"Yes, yes, of course; that is, provided
the brooch is really Ida's," he answered,
clinging desperately to the last shred of
hope that there might yet be a possibility
of avoiding the publicity which calling in
the assistance of the police would involve.
"You see," he added, reprovingly, "you
are taking the worst possible view of
things. Ida herself may be in Paris-
Heaven only knows where she is—and may
have read the advertisement for her brooch;
and, fearing lest it may draw attention to
herself, may have—"</p><p>
"What!" interrupted Juliet, "you think
Ida capable of giving away mother's brooch
in that fashion!"</p><p>
"My dear," said Lord Culvers, with a
sigh, "Heaven only knows what you are
both capable of. I could never find where
to draw the line."</p><p>
And then the carriage was announced,
and Juliet, all nervous terror for fear her
father should miss his train, and so lose
the night steamer, did her best to control
her agitation, and to expedite his
departure.</p><p>
Lord Culvers had a characteristic fare-
well speech to make to his wife and
daughter as they stood saying their good-
byes to him under the porch. It was:</p><p>
"You two won't quarrel more than
you can help while I'm away, now will
you?"</p><p>
Lady Culvers's reply was characteristic
also. It was:</p><p>
"Dear love, if Juliet is ever so trying, I
shall put up with it all for your sake."</p><p>
And Juliet's reply was also character-
istic:</p><p>
"Quarrel with Peggy-at such a time!”
she exclaimed. "I should as soon think
of quarrelling with the flies on the
ceiling!"</p><p>
So soon as her father was out of sight,
without even calling her stepmother into
council, she despatched a telegram to Clive,
telling him of the finding of the brooch,
and asking him to meet her father in
Paris on the following day. She felt quite
equal to doing this on her own responsi-
bility. It was all very well for her father
to preach deference to the proprieties of
life, and select Sefton as a suitable co-
adjutor; she felt that the proprieties of
life had already had too much deference
paid to them, and that it was time now to
make all considerations bend to their one
pressing necessity of ending a terrible
suspense.</p><p>
After she had despatched her telegram,
she went wandering out into the garden,
and thence into the park beyond; her
mind capable of holding one thought, and
one thought only: "Ida, Ida, where is
she?"</p><p>
At every turn of her footsteps a shadowy
Ida seemed to meet and confront her.
There, a cool patch of green in the after-
noon sun, lay the tennis-court where she
and Ida had had such glorious combats,
and where, if she closed her eyes for a
minute, she could see her in her white
tennis-dress, tossing, in semi-contemptuous
fashion, her ball of bank-notes to the
willing recipient. There, on the margin
of the lake, which glistened like silver
between the shifting boughs of the in-
tervening trees, stood the drooping willow
that had been their "wishing willow
from the days of short frocks and strapped
shoes upwards. There, too, in an out-of-
the-way corner of the garden, lay the little
flower-beds they had delighted to call their
own in their days of mischief and mud-
pies, and which the gardener had carefully
"set to rights" every evening, and their
tricksy fingers had as carefully "set to
wrongs" the next morning. Why, the
very birds as they piped and twittered in
and out among the shrubberies seemed to
sound Ida's name in her ears as they re-
called the long, happy, lazy mornings they
two had spent under the shadow of the
big flowering rhododendrons, embroidery
in hand, listening to the sweet, wild notes.</p><p>
"Oh, it is too much, too much!" ex-
claimed the girl, covering her ears with
her hands as if to shut out a chorus of
voices that cried aloud to her. "All that
is past and gone for ever. Ida, Ida, where
is she now!"</p><p>
She went hurriedly back to the house
and straight to her own room, where she
shut herself in with her pen and ink.</p><p>
The sun went down, the dinner-bell
clanged through the house, the moon rose
high above the oaks and elms in the park,
but still Juliet sat writing there, slowly,
carefully, painfully, as if each word she
wrote held a life's sentence in it.</p><p>
And if one had looked over her shoulder
he would have seen that her letter was
addressed to Clive, and that from its first
to its last line it was about Ida, and Ida
only.


</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-11" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h3><p>


Clive did not need to wait for Juliet's
reply to his letter in order to obtain Captain
Culvers's address. On the day of his
arrival in Paris there was delivered to him
a letter from his father, which made him
feel that he had done well to break his
journey there.</p><p>
"Since I said good-bye to you last week,"
Mr. Redway wrote, "a strange circum-
stance has occurred. A lawyer-Phillips by
name-with whom I have been casually
brought into contact, told me, in the course
of conversation, of a curious letter that he
said he had received from a member of a
family in which he knew that I and my son
were interested.</p><p>
"This letter, which he subsequently
 showed me, was dated from 15, Rue
 Vervien, Paris, and was signed Sefton
Culvers. In roundabout fashion the
writer asked for advice for a friend, who
 he said wished to borrow a few thousand
pounds on a clause in his wife's marriage
settlement, which provided that, if she died
 childless, her whole fortune over one
 hundred thousand pounds-would revert to
 him. There were no children, Captain
 Culvers went on to say, nor any likelihood
 of any, as the husband and wife had
 quarrelled and separated, and he had now
 every reason to suppose that reconciliation
  between them would be impossible.</p><p>
"Captain Calvers further stated that his
friend's need for money was immediate
and pressing. He was willing to pay a
high percentage for even a small loan so
long as it could be had at once, and
without the trouble of legal formalities that
might necessitate negotiation or corre-
spondence with his wife's family.</p><p>
"Now it doesn't require a wiseacre to
come to the conclusion that the friend, for
whom Captain Culvers made these en-
quiries, was the best of all his friends-
himself; and that the letter would never
have been addressed to Phillips if Culvers
had known that I was likely to have
dealings with him.</p><p>
"But the most important part of the
whole letter, to my way of thinking, is the
phrase, 'the husband and wife have
quarrelled, separated, and there is now
every reason to suppose that reconciliation
between them would be impossible.'</p><p>
"Of course, the most charitable supposi-
tion would be that Captain Culvers made
use of these expressions wholly and solely
for the purpose of facilitating and ex-
pediting the loan of which he is so much
in need, that there may not be a grain of
truth in them, and that he may be as much
in the dark as to his wife's movements as
we are.</p><p>
"On the other hand, there is the pos-
ability that in speaking thus, he was
speaking of matters within his knowledge.
Juliet has, you say, spoken of serious
quarrels that took place during the en-
gagement. Some such a quarrel may
have occurred on the day before the
wedding-which, to save an open scandal,
was allowed to go on-it may even have
been continued during the drive from the
house to the graveyard, and Captain
Culvers may thus have been in some sort
prepared for his wife's disappearance.
Subsequently she may have written to
him, and his words, 'there is now every
reason to suppose that reconciliation
between them would be impossible,' may
point to the fact that he will not consent to
certain conditions his wife wishes to impose
upon him, or that she refuses consent to
terms proposed by her husband.</p><p>
"I confess that from the first my sus-
picions have pointed in this direction
rather than towards Juliet, who I think
has been somewhat unjustly suspected on
the matter. If you remember, she hinted
to you that it would be as well to keep an
eye on Captain Culvers, who probably
knew more than any one imagined of her
sister's movements. His letter to Phillips, to
my way of thinking, gives colour to the idea,
and allows us to conjecture that, negotia-
tions with his wife having come to nothing,
he has tried to raise money on her property
without her knowledge. If I were in Lord
Culvers's place I would let every other
theory go and concentrate attention in
this quarter. It would not in the least
surprise me to learn that Ida, as well as
her husband, is in Paris. My own belief
is that she is safe and well wherever she
may be, and is only deterred from com-
municating with her own people by the
fear that they may compel her to make
terms with her husband, and to live with
him as his wife."</p><p>
To this letter was added a postscript,
which ran thus:</p><p>
"By the way, I am told, on good
authority, that the house where Captain
Culvers has taken up his abode
No. 15, Rue Vervien-does not bear a very
good reputation. It is kept by a Russian
-Ivanoff by name-and is the resort of
 all sorts of shady people, British and
foreign-gamblers, sporting and betting-
 men, in fact of adventurers of every
 class."</p><p>
Before Clive had time to shape his
thoughts to a clear judgement on this letter,
Juliet's telegram, despatched immediately
after Lord Culvers's departure, was
brought to him, and then, hey presto! the
father's letter was read upside down, and a
clear judgement on that or any other
matter for the time became an impossibility
to him.</p><p>
Juliet's telegram ran briefly thus:</p><p>
"The brooch has been found in Paris.
Father crosses to-night. Pray meet him
at the station to-morrow morning."</p><p>
The news, coming on the heels of his
father's letter, for the moment startled and
bewildered him. The telegram, read side
by side with Mr. Radway's conjectures,
called forth speculations as to probabilities
as wild as they were vague.</p><p>
The finding of the brooch in Paris no
doubt confirmed Mr. Redway's surmise
that Ida had been in Paris, and in com-
munication with her husband; but to
Clive's way of thinking did not give the
slightest support to his conjecture that,
"wherever she might be she was safe and
well" On the contrary, to his mind it
seemed to point to a directly opposite con-
clusion, that is to say, if the brooch had
been found, as he surmised, in a stranger's
hands.</p><p>
And his brain, once set going in this
direction and stimulated by his hatred of
his successful rival, soon refused to be
trammelled by the probable, but ran riot
among the wildest possibilities.</p><p>
His father had stated the case far too
leniently for such a scoundrel as Calvers,
who, no doubt, throughout had been acting
on a settled plan. Ida's fortune-over
one hundred thousand pounds—had from
the very first been always before this
man's mind, and he had set his wits to
work to get it entirely into his own hands.
He was beset by creditors. He knew that
a girl of Ida's high spirit could never,
under any circumstances, be likely to enact
the part of a patient Griselda and hand
her property unreservedly to his keeping,
and so he had done his best to render the
clause in her marriage settlement, which
provided that, if she died childless, her
fortune should pass to him, "un fait
accompli." Ida had most likely been in-
veigled from her mother's grave into some
place where she would be surrounded by
Captain Culvers's creatures. The letter to
her father had without doubt been written
under compulsion, in order to throw her
friends off the scent, and she had been
kept to all intents and purposes a prisoner
until means had been found to end her life
without detection to the criminals. There
were plenty of people who could be found
to do such things, and plenty of places
where they could be done both in London
and Paris. Why, No. 15, Rue Vervien, might
even have been selected for the purpose.</p><p>
Of course, at present he knew nothing
as to the where and how the diamond
brooch had been found; but he had not
the slightest doubt that when fuller infor-
mation came to him it would confirm his
terrible suspicions. Great heavens! And
they had been all sitting still with folded
hands while such a piece of iniquity was
being perpetrated!</p><p>
And when Clive had got so far in his
thinking, his brain seemed to reel, and he
felt as if all power of reasoning had left
him.</p><p>
Inaction seemed impossible. An hour
of black temptation came to him.</p><p>
The wild beast instinct to tear, to kill
the thing he hated, grew strong in him.
Now why should he not that very minute
take a pistol in his hand, go straight to 15,
Rae Vervien, and put a bullet through the
brain of the man who, according to all
acknowledged principles of right and wrong,
was fit for the hangman's hands?</p><p>
His mood of fury did not soon spend
itself. While it lasted, his revenge, or, as
he phrased it, "the act of retributive
justice," seemed to him sweeter than any-
thing else life could offer him; sweeter far
than would be the discovery of Ida and
her possible reconciliation to her husband.</p><p>
If only the bitter suspense could be
ended, and he could know that she was
peacefully laid to rest in her grave, he
felt that he could kneel down and thank
Heaven for her deliverance from the keep-
ing of such a man as Captain Culvers-a
gamester, an unprincipled roué, no doubt;
a man, in fact, who had naught to recom-
mend him but a handsome face and certain
showy personal accomplishments.</p><p>
Side by side with this image of Captain
Culvers came a vision of Ida; not the
marble-faced, self-repressed bride of three
weeks back, but a girl who had quick
blood coursing in her veins; eyes that
lighted up with every passing thought;
lips that knew how to speak those thoughts
in a voice that vibrated to every changeful
mood. Out of the shadowy past stept
this Ida, in the white fluttering robes in
which he had first seen her at the country
house of a friend. How well he remem-
bered the day! It seemed but yesterday,
although nearly a year had since slipped
away. It was the close of a hot August
day, the golden glamour of a setting sun
was falling on greens ward and terrace, a
thousand birds were carolling their hymns
to the dying day. A tall queenly figure,
she had stood before him, with eyes
looking straight into his own, lips parted
and half-smiling, and pure pale brow that
seemed to demand a crown of lilies as its
right.</p><p>
The wave of memory quenched the fury
of his thoughts. Sefton Culvers even was
forgotten in the bitter recollection of a
cup of happiness held close to his lips and
then for ever denied to them.</p><p>
He bowed his head upon his hands;
hot, passionate tears forced themselves
from his eyes.</p><p>
"Oh, my darling, my darling!" he
cried, brokenly, "why did I let you go!
Why, why did I suffer myself to be fooled
out of my happiness?"</p><p>
And hand-in-hand with the bitter recol-
lection of the easy manner in which he
had allowed himself to be blinded to the
real state of Ida's feelings towards him,
came the thought that perhaps, after all,
the bullet intended for Captain Culvers's
brain might more fitly find its home in his
own.




</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-12" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h3><p>



In his softer mood the voices of common
sense and reason made themselves heard
once more, counselling a suspension of
judgement as well as of action, until the
morrow put him in possession of the news
that Lord Culvers would bring.</p><p>
The circumstances under which the
brooch had been found might possibly
have thrown a fresh light on the whole
affair, might have already swept away
Lord Culvers's wish to hush the matter up,
and it might be that even now the whole
machinery of French and English police
had been set to work to trace the missing
girl.</p><p>
The hours that must intervene before
his conjectures could have yea or nay
given to them, stretched before him like so
many months. It was all very well for
common sense and reason to say, "Do
nothing till you know what turn affairs
are taking." Inclination whispered, "There
can be no harm in your taking a survey of
No. 15, Rue Vervien, from the outside,
and if by any chance you and Captain
Culvers should meet face to face, and you
-well, should have something to say to
him, no great damage could possibly be
done."</p><p>
So he took his hat, and, after despatch-
ing a telegram to Juliet, saying that
without fail he would meet Lord Culvers
on his arrival the next day, he turned
his steps in the direction of the Rue
Vervien.</p><p>
It was nearly six o'clock in the evening,
and the Boulevards were beginning to look
somewhat deserted, cafés and restaurants
to be somewhat thronged.</p><p>
He had to ask his way once or twice, for
he was not sure in which direction lay the
Rue Vervien. He was directed down the
Avenue de l'Opéra, and thence into a
narrow street lined on either side with
cafés and restaurants. Off this street at
right angles led the Rue Vervien, a quiet,
old-fashioned thoroughfare, with tall but
irregularly-built houses, that were evidently
occupied by tenants of various degrees of
social rank.</p><p>
There was not much traffic here, the
street was a by-way, and seemed to lead
nowhere. Two girls in muslin caps were
carrying between them a basket of well-
starched linen; a nursemaid and some
much be-frilled children went sauntering
past. Two men were coming up the street
at a somewhat rapid pace, and were talk-
ing loudly and excitedly as they came
along.</p><p>
It did not need a second glance at these
men to discover their nationality; the cut
of their clothes, the very tie of their cravat,
proclaimed them Englishmen-Englishmen,
too, of a type to be found mostly on the
race-course and in the betting-ring, and
best described by that untranslateable
word, "horsey."</p><p>
As they passed Clive he distinctly heard
Captain Culvers's name mentioned. Upon
which one of them exclaimed:</p><p>
"It's the two B's-baccarat and brandy
—that'll do for him. I doubt if he'll be fit
for play to-night."</p><p>
And then their voices passed out of ear-
shot.</p><p>
The remark did not strike pleasant key
notes of thought. They had most likely
just come away from an interview with
Captain Culvers, and no doubt had spoken
with the veracity of eye-witnesses. Clive
scowled at the row of tall houses now
beginning to throw long shadows across
the street. Now which was No. 15?</p><p>
Here his attention was arrested by
little Italian organ - boy, who, with a
monkey mounted on his shoulder, was
grinding out some doleful melody in front
of one of the larger and more pretentious
houses.</p><p>
With the recollection of the little mes-
senger of whom he had gone in pursuit
still in his mind, he said to himself:
"It will be strange if that boy is playing
in front of No. 15."</p><p>
He went on a few paces and surveyed
the house before which the boy stood. It
was tall and narrow, with iron balconies,
and windows filled in with fluted muslin
blinds, much yellowed with
sun and
dirt.</p><p>
And over its green-painted door, in
brass figures, stood its number-15.</p><p>
It might be nothing more than a strange
coincidence, or it might be one of those
"momentous trifles" which, in the annals
of crime, have times without number led
to the detection and punishment of
criminals.</p><p>
With his thoughts in their present con-
dition, the latter supposition seemed the
more probable.</p><p>
He steadily scrutinised the boy's features,
so as to have them by heart in case of
future need.</p><p>
 The child was of the usual type that one
  associates with a monkey and an organ-
large-eyed and olive-skinned, with full,
pouting lips and straight black hair.</p><p>
He touched his slouching felt hat, and
droned away more vigorously than ever
when he saw that he had attracted the
gentleman's attention.</p><p>
The well-trained monkey pulled off his
little tasseled cap and presented it. Clive
dropped a coin into it, and, accosting the
lad, asked him in the best Italian he could
command how long he had been in Paris,
and if he had ever been in England.</p><p>
The boy's reply was voluble enough, but
was given in a patois whose only word in-
telligible to Clive was "Signor."</p><p>
So Clive tried him with the same ques-
tions in French, only, however, with a
similar result. Then an idea struck him,
and taking a half-sovereign out of his
purse, he held it up to the boy and
beckoned to him to follow him.</p><p>
The child, with something of wonder
showing in his big black eyes, followed
him out of the quiet thoroughfare into the
street of many restaurants. Among these
Clive selected one that had an Italian
name over its doorway, and where the
faces of the waiters, as they bustled in and
out among their marble tables, proclaimed
their nationality.</p><p>
He called a waiter, and desired him to
bring to the boy whatever he chose to
have in the way of refreshments.</p><p>
Then while the little fellow, with evi-
dent enjoyment, disposed of a plate of
maccaroni and cheese, he desired the man
to question him, find out his province,
and whether he had recently come from
England.</p><p>
The waiter did his best as interpreter,
but said that the child's patois was all but
unintelligible to him, it being one of the
mountain dialects of Calabria or the
Abruzzi, while he himself was a Milanese.
He could, however, just make out enough
to know that the boy denied ever having
been in England, and stated that this was
his first visit to Paris.</p><p>
A question as to where the child lodged
in the big city elicited the answer that
might have been expected: He had no
settled place of abode, even at night;
cellar, an arch, or the porch of a church,
was all that he asked for by way of
shelter.</p><p>
With so much of information Clive had
to be content.</p><p>
"After all," he said to himself, "it most
probably was nothing more than a coinci-
dence that an Italian organ - boy should
bring Ida's note, and an Italian organ-
boy be found playing outside the house
where Captain Culvers lodged-a co-
incidence so trivial that no one but
himself would have dreamed of laying
stress upon it."</p><p>
Nevertheless, as a matter of precaution,
in case it might be of importance to keep
the boy in view, he desired the waiter to
give him the change from the half-sovereign,
and to make him understand that if he
came to the restaurant at the same hour
the next day there would be another supper
for him.</p><p>
The child, with a profusion of bows and
smiles, shouldered his organ and monkey
once more and departed, this time turning
his steps in an opposite direction to the
Rue Vervien.</p><p>
Clive watched the little fellow out of
sight, doubtful still as to whether he had
let slip an opportunity, or had magnified
a "trifle light as air" into a matter of
moment.

</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-13" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h3><p>

"Yes, yes, my boy, I'm quite well.
Don't trouble about me," said Lord Cul-
vers, as he shook hands with Clive. "I'm
a trifle worried, that's all, and a little
tired. Juliet sent you to meet me! Ah!
very thoughtful of her, I'm sure—But
-but where is Sefton? Have you seen
anything of him?"</p><p>
They were standing within the station,
just outside the barrier, through which a
motley crowd of passengers of many
nationalities was passing.</p><p>
"I have not seen Captain Culvers, and
know nothing of his movements," answered
Clive, curtly. "I have a carriage waiting
for you; where will you like to drive? I
suppose your man will look after your
baggage?</p><p>
"Ah yes, he'll look after my port-
manteau, and send it on to your hotel.
Bat-but where can Sefton be? He must
have had my telegram. He must be ill,
surely."</p><p>
"That's very likely," said Clive, coldly,
and thinking of the two B's.</p><p>
"Then I think I'll drive first to the
Rue Vervien and look him up. Poor
fellow, he may be frantic to learn the news
I have to tell him." Then he paused, with
his foot on the step of the voiture, looking
dubiously at Clive. "I-I-don't think
 it will be necessary for you to go with me,
 Clive- Don't mistake, I'm only too
 glad of your company at such a time; but—
but you know you two don't quite hit
 it off together."</p><p>
Clive could have laughed at any other
time at the old gentleman's nervous anxiety
to keep him and Sefton apart. But the
present was no time for smiling, even, so
he answered, gloomily:</p><p>
"I'll walk up and down the street, or
wait for you anywhere you like, while you
call on Captain Culvers. But if you don't
mind, we'll drive together to his house.
There's a great deal I want to know that
you can tell me."</p><p>
So it was on their way to the Rue
Vervien that Clive had the letter of the
English priest read to him, with its story
of the strange finding of Ida's brooch.</p><p>
Read one way, it seemed to confirm
Mr. Redway's supposition that Ida was in
Paris at the present moment. Looked at
in another light, it seemed to give a basis
to their gloomiest fears.</p><p>
"I suppose," Clive said, savagely, "you
feel bound to look up Culvers, otherwise
I should say don't lose a minute in going
to the house of this priest, see the brooch,
and drive straight away to the Palais de
Justice."</p><p>
"Ah yes, my boy, I feel bound, as you
say, to look up Sefton. You're very good
to-to give me the pleasure of your com-
pany. But Sefton, as you know, is the
right person to act with me in this matter.
And-and if you get tired of waiting, and
go back to your hotel, I-I shan't feel
affronted."</p><p>
Clive bit his lip to keep back an angry
word. Lord Calvers had as good as dis-
missed him; he paused, even, on the door-
step of No. 15, as if expecting him to shake
hands, and say that, as he was no longer of
any use, he'd go back at once. But Clive
did not choose to be dismissed. In-
stinctively he felt that they might be on
the very verge of a crisis, that a single
false step might ruin all, and that Lord
Calvers, advised only by his nephew,
might very easily take that false step.</p><p>
So at the risk of being thought de trop,
and of having to hear Sefton use that
odious expression, "my wife," again and
again in his most offensively possessive
tone, he told Lord Culvers that he would
wait for him as long as he pleased, but
at the same time he thought that three
minutes was enough and to spare for
Captain Culvers to get his hat and walk
down the stairs into the street; nothing
more than that was required of him.</p><p>
It was, however, more than three
minutes-nearer quarter of an hour—
before Lord Culvers came out of the house
and re-entered the carriage. And when he
did so it was unaccompanied by Sefton.</p><p>
"I can't make it out-I'm bewildered
utterly," he said, when he had directed the
coachman to drive to the Rue Bellarmine.
"Sefton has behaved in the most extra-
ordinary manner, refused point-blank to
go with me to identify Ida's brooch; that
is, if I adhere to my resolve of driving to
the Prefect of Police afterwards. He said
the most outrageous things to me; claimed
the brooch as his property; said that he
would have no confounded fuss made over
his wife's diamonds."</p><p>
Clive's remark on this was a short, sharp
expression which, if Sefton had heard, he
might have felt disposed to resent.
Lord Culvers's face grew more and
more distressed as he went on with his
story.</p><p>
"It's mystery upon mystery. I can't
think that Sefton altogether knew what
he was saying; his face was flushed, his
manner very excited. When I went in he
had a newspaper in his hand, and he drew
my attention to an advertisement which he
said had appeared in several English and
French journals, and asked me if I had had
anything to do with its insertion. He'd
teach people to meddle with his private
affairs, he added. Such an extraordinary
advertisement it was, 'Sub signo et sub
rosa,' nothing more. My head is going
round, Clive. Can you see a meaning in
all this? I don't like to say it, but the
impression left on my mind is that Sefton
had had a little more wine than was good
for him, and did not quite know what he
was saying."</p><p>
 Then they had pulled up at the priest's
house in the Rue Bellarmine, and the task
 of identifying the brooch for the moment
 drove Sefton and his extraordinary conduct
 from their thoughts.</p><p>
Father Baldwin did not keep them wait-
ing. He entered the room brooch in
hand.</p><p>
"This is the exact condition in which it
was when taken from the offertory bag,"
he said as he handed it to Lord Culvers.</p><p>
Lord Culvers took out his eye-glass and
closely examined it. Then he started and
turned a shade paler.</p><p>
"Ida's brooch, not a doubt. There is
the emerald with the flaw in it; but it was
not in this condition when she wore it
last," he sail, as he passed it to Clive for
inspection.</p><p>
Clive saw at a glance that the brooch
had been tampered with. The ruby eyes
of the bird had disappeared; from its body
here and there diamonds had been ab-
atracted—abstracted, too, with a rough
hand, and some, no doubt, rough-and-
ready tool-assuredly not with the hand
and the tool of a skilled jeweller. Also,
sundry of the emeralds in the spray which
the bird held in its beak, were missing,
and the pin of the brooch was broken.</p><p>
Questions addressed to the priest elicited
no further information than that he had
already given in his letter. He, however,
strongly advised that the Commissaire of
Police should at once be consulted on the
matter.</p><p>
There seemed to be no other course open
to them now. So Lord Culvers, after writ-
ing his cheque for the promised reward and
desiring Father Baldwin to pay it to the
credit of any charity he pleased, ordered
the voiturier to drive at once to the
Palais de Justice.

</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-14" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</h3><p>

Wearied and dispirited, Lord Culvers
leaned his head upon his hand.</p><p>
"It's altogether too much, Clive," he
said. "I'm not a young man. I feel all
to pieces. Life is a little too hard for me
just now."</p><p>
They had returned from their interview
with the Prefect of Police, and now sat in
Clive's sitting-room at his hotel, trying to
"face the worst and act for the best."</p><p>
That interview had been a long and
painful one, and the two men had come
away from it fully convinced that they had
acted the part of imbeciles in allowing a
fortnight of precious time to slip away
without making an effort to track the
missing girl.</p><p>
As a matter of course, in order to give
full emphasis to the mystery of the re-
covered brooch, it had been necessary to
relate to the Prefect the story of Ida's
marriage and subsequent disappearance;
also, the full history of her engagement,
together with the footing on which she
had appeared to stand towards Captain
Culvers, as stated by Juliet.</p><p>
An interpreter, fortunately, had not been
required, for although the Prefect had
preferred to speak in his own tongue, he
had a perfect knowledge of colloquial
English.</p><p>
Lord Culvers's narrative, in all its
minute detail, had been taken down in
writing by an official, who, as a matter of
course, was present.</p><p>
On the disappearance of the young lady
the Prefect had declined to express an
opinion, stating that he could not possibly
form one until he had given most careful
thought to the case in all its bearings.</p><p>
He had, however, said that in so serious
a matter they could not afford to neglect
any detail, however alight, and, therefore,
he proposed at once instituting a search for
the little organ-boy, of whom mention had
been made. He had also proposed sending
one of his officers to wait at the Italian
restaurant that evening, in the hope that
the promise of a supper would be induce-
ment enough to take the little fellow
there.</p><p>
Here Clive had supplied a full and
minute description of the boy.</p><p>
Then they had come to the finding of
the brooch in the offertory bag, and the
damaged piece of jewellery was handed to
the Prefect for his inspection.</p><p>
Upon this, his questions had set in
one direction and centered entirely upon
Sefton Culvers, his past and his present
career.</p><p>
Lord Culvers, a little astonished, had
done his best to answer these questions.
Of, his nephew's career during the past
six or seven years he could give but little
information. Captain Calvers bad had a
good deal of foreign service, had returned
home with his health impaired about
eighteen months back, and had thought it
best to send in his papers to the Horse
Guards. This was about the sum total of
all Lord Culvers had to tell.</p><p>
The Prefect had laid stress upon Captain
Culvers's resignation of his commission,
and had asked if no other reason than
enfeebled health could be assigned for it.</p><p>
Lord Calvers had replied that if any
other reason existed he did not know of
it. He had surmised, and knew now for
certain, that his nephew was heavily in
debt; but, so far as he was aware, there had
never been a whisper against his private
character.</p><p>
Then had succeeded a number of ques-
tions as to Captain Culvers's doings in
Paris at the present moment, and the atti-
tude he had assumed since the disap-
pearance of his wife. Upon this there had
followed the description of Sefton's present
surroundings and most likely associates,
together with the account of Lord Culvers's
interview with him that morning, the
young man's extraordinary manner, the
excitement he had shown over a chance
advertisement, and, finally, his peremptory
wish that the attention of the police should
not be drawn to the recovery of the
brooch.</p><p>
Here the Prefect had asked for and had
taken down in writing the advertisement
referred to.</p><p>
Then Clive had leaned forward and had
asked one or two eager questions. Did
the damaged condition of the brooch
of necessity point to robbery, and its
broken pin to violence? Was it presum-
able that such robbery and violence had
taken place in Paris?</p><p>
The Prefect had answered in cautious
fashion, that, although in so serious a
matter they could not afford to disregard
any circumstance, however slight, they
must yet be on their guard to prevent the
main facts of the case from becoming
entangled with side issues, which should
be classified and treated as things apart.
To his way of thinking, the disappearance
of the lady was one thing, the finding of
the brooch another. He was not prepared
to say that Captain Culvers's wife had not
fallen into bad hands, and been—well—
robbed, if nothing worse, and that such
robbery with violence had not taken place
in Paris. All he said was, that neither
the condition of the brooch nor its recovery
in Paris went to prove the one thing or the
other. If that brooch had been in the
possession of professional thieves, they
would have known perfectly well how to
dispose of every one of the stones, which
would have been removed with the finest
of jeweller's tools, and the skeleton of the
brooch would have been then dropped into
a smelting-pot, not into an offertory bag.
Here, however, was a brooch that had
been tampered with by an amateur, who
had evidently, before he was half-way
through his task, become scared, and had
got rid of it in the readiest way that
offered. The broken pin to his mind did
not of necessity point to a struggle or
violence of any sort; it quite as much
pointed to an accident. A broken brooch-
pin and a lost brooch were matters of
everyday occurrence.</p><p>
In conclusion, the Prefect had asked for
permission to put himself at once in com-
munication with the English police, in
order that the highest professional skill in
both countries might be brought to bear
on the affair, which, to his way of think-
ing, was beginning to assume a most
serious aspect.</p><p>
It was no wonder that Lord Culvers
and Clive should have come away from
such an interview with their hopes at
their lowest, their fears at their highest;
nor that the former should lean his head
upon his hand declaring that life was a
little too much for him just then, and that
Clive should have never a word to say by
way of comfort.</p><p>
But if there were little to say by way of
consolation, there was plenty to discuss in
the arrangements of the details of the
course of action which the Prefect had re-
commended for their adoption.</p><p>
With these details Clive strove to arouse
Lord Culvers from his lethargy and de-.
pression, wishing heartily, however, mean-
while, that a younger and more energetic
coadjutor could have been assigned to him.</p><p>
"It will be best," he said, "for you to
return to England—to London, of course;
while I will remain in Paris. There
should be some one in either place who
can give authority or bear responsibility at
a moment's notice."</p><p>
Lord Culvers gave a heavy sigh.</p><p>
"That should be Sefton's duty; he
ought to be in the front now, doing his
part and helping us to do ours," he said,
querulously.</p><p>
Clive could hardly trust his tongue to
speak Sefton's name.</p><p>
"That man must simply be ignored;
he drops out of the affair. We can do
without him," he said, curtly.</p><p>
"Supposing," said Lord Culvers pre-
sently, with a little attempt at a smile,
"that Ida should write in a day or two,
and tell us where she is staying, we shall
all feel such fools for the fuss we have
made."</p><p>
"I wish to Heaven we could be made to
feel fools in that fashion," answered Clive,
vehemently, and trying his hardest to
repress the feeling of irritation that was
beginning to grow up in his mind against
the man who could entertain such a
thought at such a time.</p><p>
Yet it must be confessed that Fate was
dealing a little harshly with Lord Culvers
at the moment.</p><p>
Fancy setting an egg on end, and bidding
it run about and crow like a chicken.
When the poor egg rolled over and fell
helplessly to the ground, one would feel
bound to admit that a little too much had
been required of it.</p><p>
All Lord Calvers had ever asked of
Providence was a quiet life in which to
enjoy the good things bestowed upon him.
And a quiet life was just the one thing
that Providence persisted in denying to
him.</p><p>
But, whether able to comply with them
or not, demands upon Lord Culvers's
energies were from this point to follow
thick and fast.</p><p>
He did his best to acquiesce heartily
in Clive's practical suggestions, and ex-
pressed his willingness to return to
England on the following day. To return
sooner he feared would be an impossibility;
he felt that a night's rest on a feather-bed
before undertaking a second journey was
an absolute necessity to him.</p><p>
Then, with another feeble little attempt
at a smile, he wondered if a cutlet and a
glass of claret would put a little strength
into him.</p><p>
Clive, with a twinge of remorse, recol-
lecting that the old gentleman had had
nothing in the way of food since his
arrival in the morning, at once ordered the
much-needed refreshment.</p><p>
He himself, however, at the moment,
felt eating to be an impossibility. The heat
was intense; a thunder-storm seemed
threatening; he felt stifled within four
walls. There was yet an hour to be got
through before he kept his appointment at
the Italian café with the little organ-boy.
He thought he would take a turn in the
Champs Elysées and see if the fresh air
would clear his brain and put some fresh
ideas into it.</p><p>
Ideas, however, are among the many
things for which the demand does not create
the supply. Clive wandered along the
sultry, dusty road in the direction of the
Bois de Boulogne, his brain meantime,
instead of grinding out fresh ideas, work-
ing incessantly at the old treadmill of
anxieties, perplexities, and distresses which
for him from the very first had gathered
round Ida's disappearance.</p><p>
Half past five sounded from a clock-
tower, and he turned his steps towards the
street of many restaurants, hoping to
find his little black-eyed friend awaiting
him there.</p><p>
He found the usual number of people
assembled in the café round the marble
tables, eating their ices or drinking their
chocolate; but never a sign of the little
organ-grinder.</p><p>
He questioned the waiter who had at-
tended to him on the previous day as to
whether he had seen anything of the child,
and received a negative in reply.</p><p>
Then he was himself addressed by a thin,
wiry little man, whom he had noted as he
had entered the café, seated in a corner,
to all appearance absorbed in the perusal
of his "Figaro."</p><p>
Clive guessed in a moment that this
individual was the detective whom the
Prefect of Police had promised should be
in attendance at the café.</p><p>
They had a little talk together.</p><p>
The detective expressed his conviction
that they were both on a lost errand. He
was convinced that the boy would not
make his appearance; although when
pressed by Clive to do so, he declined to
give the reasons for, his conviction. He
stated further that his orders were to
remain in or outside the place until it
closed at midnight. There was therefore
no necessity for "M'sieu" to remain
unless he felt so disposed.</p><p>
Clive, however, did feel so disposed, and
he lingered about the restaurant until
daylight waned and gas-lamps were
lighted.</p><p>
Then he thought it best to return to his
hotel, in case the evening mail might have
brought news of any kind, or information
that called for immediate action.</p><p>
On the steps of his hotel he was met by
a chance acquaintance, who detained him
a few minutes in conversation. This
chance acquaintance was a member of the
Alpine Club, en route for the Swiss
mountains, and was eager to detail to
Clive a new line of road that he had
mapped out for himself. Clive had but a
scanty attention to give him, and shook
him off as soon as possible. During the
few minutes that they stood talking to
gether, Clive had his attention arrested by
a sister of the Salvation Army, who came
out of the hotel and passed down the stops
close to his elbow.</p><p>
He caught a glimpse of her face under
its black poke-bonnet as she went by.
She was a woman of about twenty-five
years of age, English not a doubt, with a
pale, care worn face, that was nevertheless
rendered attractive by its remarkable
sweetness of expression.</p><p>
He gave a passing wonder to the
thought what could have brought her,
without her colleagues, into so uncongenial
a neighbourhood, and then went on to the
room where he had left Lord Culvers.</p><p>
He found it in utter darkness, save for
a single candle which burned upon a side-
table that they had given up to their
writing materials, and a patch of gas-light,
which an outside lamp made upon the
wall.</p><p>
It seemed strange. The unlighted lamps
could be easily accounted for by the fact
that Lord Culvers, fast asleep, reclined in
a comfortable easy-chair, with his feet rest-
ing on another chair.</p><p>
But the one candle on the writing-table!
It seemed to suggest that some one had
entered while Lord Culvers had slept, and
had made use of the pen and ink.</p><p>
Clive crossed the room to the small
table, and there found his suspicions con-
firmed. A pen was in the ink-stand, a
sheet of note-paper was laid obtrusively
athwart the blotting pad. And on this
sheet of note-paper was written in ink,
not yet dry:</p><p>
"A poor penitent, lying at the point of
death at No. 11, Rue Corot, has a story
to tell that may interest Lord Culvers."

</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-15" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h3><p>


Clive stood staring blankly at the
mysterious words.</p><p>
"A poor penitent!" "A story to
tell!" What in Heaven's name did it
mean?</p><p>
Who could have entered the room while
Lord Culvers slept, and have left a message
whose full import it seemed impossible to
gauge?</p><p>
For that the story which might "interest
Lord Culvers" had reference to their one
pressing cause of anxiety, he did not for a
moment doubt.</p><p>
All his wonderings, however, had to be
swept on one side unanswered, to make
way for the more practical question,
What was to be done for the best?</p><p>
And to this question there seemed but
one answer: "Go yourself without a
moment's delay to No. 11, Rue Corot."</p><p>
He threw one glance at Lord Calvers as
he slept. His face, fitfully lighted by the
one candle and the patch of light thrown
by the outside gas-lamp, showed painfully
worn and aged. It did not need a second
glance to convince Clive that to awaken
him and explain matters to him would
mean not only delay in setting forth, but
impediment to progress afterwards if, in
his present nerveless, spiritless condition,
he should insist on accompanying him.</p><p>
"And how thankful he will be to be
spared as much exertion as possible!"
thought the young man, as having folded
and put away the sheet of note-paper, he
softly closed the door behind him, and
made his way down the stairs.</p><p>
He did not stop to interrogate the
waiters as to who had entered his sitting
room during his absence.</p><p>
"Where would be the use?" he said to
himself, as he called a voiture, and desired
the man to drive him to the Rue Corot;
"the message was the thing, the messenger
mattered but little."</p><p>
Oddly enough, with the thought of the
messenger there came into his mind a
recollection of the sweet, careworn face
of which he had caught a passing glimpse
under a Salvationist poke-bonnet.</p><p>
With his curiosity intensified to burning
point by his anxieties, the wings of the
wind would have seemed a tardy means of
conveyance to his destination; so it was
scarcely surprising that the jolting voiture
with its sorry horse taxed his patience to
its utmost limits.</p><p>
The Rue Corot lies in the unfashionable
quarter of the Porte Saint Martin, in close
vicinity to the Théâtre Beaumarchais.
It is a narrow and somewhat noisy
thoroughfare of tall seven-storied houses
that are let and sublet to all sorts and
conditions of men.</p><p>
Clive dismissed his voiture at the corner
of the street, and found No. 11 for himself.
The door was open, no porter was in at-
tendance, and the entrance seemed all in
darkness.</p><p>
It was not until he had his foot
absolutely on the first of the narrow flight
of stairs, that he realised the awkwardness
of his position in coming to a house to en-
quire for a sick person without knowledge
of either the name or the sex of the indi-
vidual.</p><p>
Half-way up the stairs he had to draw
back to the wall to allow a young woman
to pass. She appeared to be of the
sempstress or shop-attendant class, and was
smartly dressed, as if for a café chantant,
or some other bourgeois place of entertain-
ment.</p><p>
Clive seized his opportunity, and, lifting
his hat, asked the girl if she could tell
him if any one were ill in the house.</p><p>
"Mais oui, M'sieu," she replied; "c'est
la pauvre Marie Schira qui va mourir."</p><p>
"Marie Schira."</p><p>
Clive repeated the name to himself once
or twice, and then remembered that he
had seen it frequently on Parisian play-
bills.</p><p>
Now what in the name of all that was
wonderful could such a person as Marie
Schira know or have to tell about such an
one as Ida Culvers?</p><p>
He ventured to address another question
or two to the girl, and elicited the fact that
Marie Schira, while dressing in her tiny
dressing-room behind the scenes at the
Théâtre Beaumarchais, had set her gauze
sleeve on fire with the candles on her
table, and, before assistance could be pro-
cured, had been so severely burned that
her life was despaired of. This had hap-
pened three nights ago.</p><p>
It was an awkward place for a colloquy
this, on a small landing in the middle of a
flight of stairs lighted only by a dim oil-
lamp on a very high bracket. Yet Clive
hazarded one more question.</p><p>
"On which floor were Mademoiselle
Schira's rooms? Was there any one there
who could receive him?"</p><p>
The young girl eyed him dubiously for
a moment, as if wondering over the motive
for his questions concerning a person of
whom he evidently knew next to nothing.</p><p>
She, however, answered him politely that
Marie Schira's rooms were on the floor
above the one on which they stood; that
Marie had a sister who had been summoned
from England, and who was in attendance
on her night and day. This sister was a
member of a religious order, and wore a
big "chapeau comme ça"—here the girl
with her finger as nearly as possible
described the shape of a coal-scuttle in the
air. If she were out there would be sure
to be some one else in attendance on Marie,
for she was never left alone.</p><p>
Then the girl wished him good evening,
and passed down the stairs.</p><p>
The "chapeau comme ça" at once
conjured up to Clive's fancy a vision of
a Salvation Army poke-bonnet and a sweet,
careworn face beneath it. He wondered if
the bearer of the mysterious message stood
revealed.</p><p>
When he knocked at one of two doors
that faced him on the second floor, the
"some one else" left in charge of Marie
Schira proved to be an elderly. woman of
most untidy appearance, with a yellow
handkerchief tied over her head.</p><p>
Her French was alarmingly bourgeois,
and her sentences ran one into the other
with such rapidity as to be almost un-
intelligible.</p><p>
Clive could just make out that Marie
was suffering agonies; that delirium had
set in, and that it was not likely she would
live till morning.</p><p>
Would M'sieu enter and sit down in
the salon? Marie's sister, who had gone
out early in the afternoon, would no doubt
soon return and be able to answer any
questions.</p><p>
As she finished speaking the woman
opened a door adjoining the one at which
she stood, and showed Clive into a room
dimly lighted by a single candle in a
girandole over the mantelpiece.</p><p>
He conjectured that a door on one side
of the fireplace led into the room of the
sufferer, for he presently heard the woman's
voice on the other side of it, together with
what he fancied to be the creaking of an
iron bedstead. It seemed as if the poor
girl were tossing restlessly on her couch of
pain, for presently he heard a faint moan,
followed at an interval by a low, incoherent
muttering.</p><p>
It was a dreary waiting-time, this, that
had its dreariness doubled and trebled by
the fear lest even as he sat there the dying
girl might pass away with the story it
behoved him to hear untold.</p><p>
His eye wandered round the dimly-
lighted room. It was of the type one
might expect as the half-salon, half-salle-à-
manger of an actress not at the head of
her profession.</p><p>
A general air of gaudiness prevailed.
There was plenty of gilding and bright
colour in the furniture, but nowhere the
touch of daintiness and order that pro-
claims the gentlewoman's sitting-room.</p><p>
Side by side with the gaudiness and
untidiness, there lingered pathetic traces
of the sad episode that was ending poor
Marie's career. A heavy cloak flung over
the back of a chair, with its lining burned
away, proclaimed the last service it had
rendered to its owner. A pair of tiny,
silver trimmed slippers, scorched and
blackened, lay beside it on the floor. A
portrait of Marie Schira, that of a beam-
ing, brilliant brunette, smiled down from
an opposite wall on these tokens of the
last tragedy in which she had played her
part; and on a table immediately beneath
this portrait the light of the one candle
found out the diamonds in a massive gold
bracelet, which lay side by side with a
broken fan and a withered bouquet of
carnations.</p><p>
A step on the outside landing made
Clive turn his head towards the door,
which he had left slightly ajar. Presently
a man's head, with a hat on, looked in,
and as hurriedly withdrew. Clive had a
good memory for faces, and, slight as
was the glimpse he had of this one, it
recalled that of one of the two men who
had passed him on the previous day in
the Rue Vervien, and whose remark
respecting Captain Culvers he had over-
heard.</p><p>
The fact struck him as strange. He
might have doubted the evidence of his
eyesight, if it had not, a moment after,
been corroborated by a voice in the ad-
joining room, whose tones he at once
identified with those of the man who had
animadverted upon Captain Culvers's
liking for the "two B's."</p><p>
"Who is that man in there?" were the
words that Clive heard in French, that
had an unmistakeable English flavour to
it. "Has Mattie sent for him or what
does he want?"</p><p>
The woman's reply did not reach Clive's
ear.</p><p>
Then the opening and shutting of a
door, and the sound of heavy footsteps
descending the stairs, told him that the
man had departed.</p><p>
Half an hour, marked by the jarringly
merry chimes of a showy ormolu clock on
the mantelpiece, slowly told itself out, and
then there came the sound of other and
lighter footsteps on the outer landing, fol-
lowed once more by the opening and
shutting of the door of the adjoining room.</p><p>
"Mary, my poor child!" were the words
that reached Clive now; "let me raise
your pillows. It is I-your own Mattie
back again."</p><p>
It was said in English, and in sweet,
low tones, that might have been a lady's.</p><p>
Three minutes after, the door that
divided the salon from the bedroom was
softly opened, and Clive, looking up, saw
standing, framed as it were in the door-
way, the figure of a woman in a straight
black gown, and with a black poke-bonnet
on her head. Beneath the bonnet showed
the sweet, care worn face of which he had
caught a glimpse at the door of the
hotel.</p><p>
The woman closed the door behind her,
and advanced into the dim room.</p><p>
"Are you Lord Calvers, sir" she
asked. "It is very good of you to come.
I suppose you saw my message on the
writing-table? I did not like to disturb
the gentleman asleep in the easy-chair, so
I ventured to make use of the pen and ink
I saw there."</p><p>
Clive explained that he was not Lord
Calvers, but one of his most intimate
friends, and that any story Marie Schira
or her friends might have to tell, they
might rely upon it would be faithfully
and literally transmitted by him to Lord
Calvers.</p><p>
The woman kept her eyes fixed on him
as he spoke.</p><p>
"I fear it is too late, sir," she said,
sadly. "Since I went out this afternoon
a sad change has set in, and I fear my
poor sister will carry her story into the
grave with her. Something has been
preying on her mind for days past-some-
thing in connection with the name of
Culvers, which has been very often on her
lips in her delirium. I would have gone
to you sooner if it had been possible."</p><p>
"But have you no idea what has been
preying on her mind?" asked Clive,
eagerly. "Can you conjecture nothing,
absolutely nothing, as to the story she
wished to tell Lord Calvers?"</p><p>
"I will tell you all I know, sir, with
pleasure," she answered. "But it is very
little. Till I was fetched from my work
in London the other day I had not seen
Mary for years. I had prayed night and
day that the lost sheep might be brought
back to the Fold; but—"</p><p>
"Can you tell me who the man was
who came in and went out about half an
hour ago?" interrupted Clive, eager to
snatch at any and every scattered thread
that presented itself, in hopes that thus he
might unravel something of the mystery
which seemed to deepen at every turn.</p><p>
"My brother John, sir, I suppose," she
answered. There are three of us-Mary,
John, and Martha—that's me. Holy
names these, sir; but, alas they have
been but unworthily borne."</p><p>
It was between pious ejaculations so
charged with deep feeling, that on her lips
they became a prayer, that Clive gathered
fragments of the family history of the
bearers of these "holy names that
enabled him to understand something of
the condition of things he was now called
upon to face.</p><p>
John had begun life as a stable help,
from that he had risen to be a head groom.
After that his career had become dubious.
He had fallen into bad company, taken to
gambling and betting, and for years his
family bad seen nothing of him.</p><p>
Mary, a beautiful but frivolous girl, had
run away from home, when little more
than a child, to join a company of
strolling players, and for years she, too,
had been a stranger to her family and
friends. Subsequently, John, in his some-
what vagrant career, had lighted upon her
on the race-course at Chantilly with her
first name Frenchified, and the family
patronymic of Skinner Italianised into
Schira. Under this nom de guerre she
had made something of a reputation as
an actress of low comedy parts at an
inferior theatre.</p><p>
Of herself Miss Skinner said nothing.
Her straight black gown, and poke-bonnet,
seemed sufficiently to tell her story.</p><p>
She ended her fragmentary scraps of her
family history in a faltering voice, and
with eyes that swam in tears.</p><p>
"I pray for the two night and day, sir,"
she said, clasping her hands together,
"without ceasing, I beseech the Good
Shepherd to—"</p><p>
But," interrupted Clive, anxious to
bring her back to the point where his
interest was keenest, "did your sister on
your arrival here give you no hint as to
what was on her mind?"</p><p>
"I know up to a certain point, sir.
When I first arrived here, although she
was suffering terribly, there was no fever
on her, and she could talk calmly at
intervals. In her sleep she used to mutter
a good deal about some diamonds which,
she seemed to fear, might get her and
some one else into trouble."</p><p>
Clive gave a great start.</p><p>
"Diamonds!" he ejaculated.</p><p>
"Yes, sir. So once, when she seemed
suffering a little less, I asked her if she
had anything in her possession that did
not rightfully belong to her. At first she
refused to answer; but when I spoke to
her about the great judgement seat before
which she must shortly stand, she grew
frightened, and told me to fetch her a
certain box out of one of her drawers. I
did so, and found in it a magnificent
diamond brooch that had had some of its
stones removed. This she desired me to
take to the church of the Carmelites on
Sunday, and put into the offertory bag.
It would then, she said, no doubt, get back
to its rightful owner, for there had been
advertisements out offering a large reward
for it."</p><p>
"But did she give you no idea how the
brooch came into her possession?" ex-
claimed Clive.</p><p>
It was hard to be brought thus to the
edge of an explanation, and then be left as
much in the dark as ever.</p><p>
"None whatever, sir, and she grew so
rapidly worse that it became impossible to
question her. In her delirium the name
of Calvers was very often on her lips. I
spoke to John about this, and told him
also about the brooch, and what I had
done with it. Upon this he was very
angry; he called me a fool, and said that
if I had given the brooch to him he would
have returned it to Lord Culvers, and had
five hundred pounds for his pains."</p><p>
"And does John know nothing of how
your sister obtained the brooch?"</p><p>
"He says not, sir, and flies into a
passion whenever I mention it to him.
And although my poor sister has again
and again in her delirium muttered the
name of Culvers, she has never again
alluded to the brooch. Last night, as I
watched beside her, she muttered once or
twice, 'send for him-send for him.' I
could think of no one but Lord Culvers
that she could wish sent for; so the first
thing this morning I went to John, and
asked him if he knew Lord Culvers's
address so that I might telegraph to him
Mary's wish to see him, for I could not tell
what might lie behind it. John was rough,
and refused me any information. One
of John's associates, however, a man who
once or twice has been moved by the Lord
to show me a kindness, followed me down
the stairs from John's rooms, and told me
that Lord Culvers would be in Paris to-
day, and most likely at the Hôtel Bristol
in the afternoon."</p><p>
Mystery seemed increasing upon mystery.</p><p>
"Who was that man? How on earth
could he know anything of Lord Calvers's
movements?" exclaimed Clive.</p><p>
"I don't know, sir. His name is
Johnson; off and on he is a good deal with
John. I wish I could tell you more, sir.
Mary seemed slightly better, and was
sleeping quietly when I went out this
afternoon, and I was hoping that she
might have rallied enough to explain
matters to you; but alas! while I was
away a change set in, and I fear now that
she will carry her secret into the grave
with her."</p><p>
It was a long story. Clive had listened
to it with the closest attention, summing
up, meanwhile, in an undercurrent of
thought, its many and diverse details,
weighing them, as it were, in order to dis-
cover what bearing they might have on
the main facts.</p><p>
"I must see your brother," he said, as
she finished speaking, "and ask him a few
questions. Give me his address, that is
if you do not expect him back again here
shortly."</p><p>
Miss Skinner shook her head.</p><p>
"I may not see him for days, sir," she
answered, "unless I go to him, and then,
most likely, I shall find him sound asleep,
for he is up half the night and in bed half
the day."</p><p>
Then she fetched pen and ink and wrote
her brother's address upon a slip of paper.</p><p>
"I have done my best, sir," she said, as
she handed it to Clive and noted his dis-
satisfied expression of countenance.
have felt all through that a great deal lies
behind all this; but how to get at it I do
not know."</p><p>
Clive needed no telling that a great
deal lay behind the story he had just
heard. Mystery seemed accumulating upon
mystery; clouds seemed thickening, not
lifting.</p><p>
"I must go back to the sick-room now,
sir," she said, after waiting a moment for
an answer. "My poor Mary may want
me. And I must pray-pray for the poor
lost lamb to the very last. Will you care to
wait here on the chance that a moment of
consciousness may come to her, or will you
go back?"</p><p>
There could be but one answer to this
from Clive: he would wait hours, days, if
need were, on the faintest chance of a
word being spoken by Marie Schira that
might throw light on her possession of
Ida's diamonds.</p><p>
There was, however, Lord Calvers to be
thought of. So he borrowed pen and
paper, and asked if a trusty messenger
could be found.</p><p>
Miss Skinner answered him that the
watcher beside Marie's couch, who was
going off duty now for the night, might be
trusted to carry a note for him.</p><p>
Clive, therefore, sent by her a brief line
to Lord Culvers, telling him not to expect
him till he saw him, as he had been de-
tained on a matter of importance.</p><p>
A dreary night's vigil he was to keep
in that dim, silent room. The doctor came
and the doctor went, saying that another
six or eight hours would see the end of it,
and telling Clive, as he passed through the
outer room on his way downstairs, that, if
he wanted to speak with Marie Schira, he
might as well go home at once, for she
would never again recover consciousness.</p><p>
Nevertheless, Clive remained. After mid-
night outside noises died down and the
silence deepened on the house within, a
silence which, so far as he was concerned,
was broken only by the merry chimes of
the showy clock on the mantelpiece, the
creaking of the bedstead in the adjoining
room, and the moans of the poor sufferer.</p><p>
And through it all-running, so to speak,
as a soft, sad accompaniment to those
moans of pain—went ceaselessly the
prayers of the Sister kneeling beside the
dying girl: "Spare her, good Lord! Have
mercy upon her, a miserable sinner!"


</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-16" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</h3><p>
So Marie Schira passed away with her
story untold.</p>
<hr/>
<p>The air struck chill to Clive as, weary
and sad at heart, he made his way down
the stairs and out into the silent streets in
the grey of the early dawn.</p><p>
In spite of the early hour, he found Lord
Culvers dressed and seated at breakfast
when he got back to the hotel. To Clive's
fancy he looked far less dejected and
spiritless than when he had left him over-
night. To say truth, the old gentle-
man had ventured to build on Clive's
prolonged absence hopes that the cir-
cumstances scarcely justified. He was
naturally enough eager for an explanation.
The long, dreary explanation that Clive
had to give killed those hopes one by
one.</p><p>
When it came to an end the two found
themselves precisely where they had been
on the preceding day, so far at least as the
mystery of Ida's disappearance was con-
cerned-at the end of a blind alley, as it
were, with a blank wall facing them.</p><p>
"The thing we have now to decide,"
said Clive, as he finished his story, "is
whether it will be better for me to see and
question this man, John Skinner, or
whether it will be best to leave him to the
police."</p><p>
The matter was to be decided for them,
for even as Clive said the words the door
opened, and a waiter entered to say that a
man, by name John Skinner, was below,
and wished to see Lord Culvers.</p><p>
"We must be on our guard against
fraud with a man of his stamp," said Clive,
as the waiter departed to show the man
in.</p><p>
Assuredly the personal appearance of
John Skinner was not such as to inspire
confidence. With his hat removed, he
looked even less attractive than he had on
the previous night. He was short in
stature, with a flat head, small eyes, and
hair, complexion, and whiskers of a sandy
hue. The expression on his face was that
of cunning of a low type combined with
servility.</p><p>
He looked from Lord Calvers to Clive,
from Clive to Lord Culvers. Then he
turned to the latter, saying:</p><p>
"I was told you wished to see me, my
lord."</p><p>
Lord Calvers looked helplessly at
Clive.</p><p>
"Yes," said Clive, coming forward, and
going straight to the point at once. "We
have a question to ask you. How did a
diamond brooch, the property of Lord
Culvers's daughter, pass into the possession
of your sister?"</p><p>
The man did not immediately reply. A
look of low cunning settled on his face.
He made one step towards Lord Culvers.</p><p>
"My lord," he said, "I have a question
-an important one-to ask before I speak.
I know that a handsome reward has been
offered for the brooch, I want to know if
there will be a reward-in proportion to
that very handsome sum-for relating how
that brooch got into a certain person's
possession, and how it passed out of that
person's possession into some one else's?"</p><p>
"Oh-h," said Clive, contemptuously,
"it's a case of how much down, is
it?"</p><p>
Lord Culvers became greatly agitated.</p><p>
"Speak out, don't talk in enigmas," he
said. "Of course I'll pay for information
that may be worth having. Who is that
'certain person'?"</p><p>
"But we've yet to learn that this man's
word is to be relied on," said Clive, even
more contemptuously than before. "A
man who sells information for so much
down, is likely to manufacture as much as
he can find a market for."</p><p>
Again the man declined to answer Clive,
and addressed Lord Culvers.</p><p>
"You can test the truth of my state-
ments in any way you please, my lord," he
said; "but I don't open my lips till I find
out if it'll be worth my while."</p><p>
"How much do you want?" asked
Lord Culvers, his agitation increasing on
him.</p><p>
For answer Skinner drew from his
pocket a letter-case, from which he took
some four or five slips of paper. These he
spread before Lord Culvers, pointing with
his finger to the name which signed each
slip.</p><p>
One and all these papers were headed
with the formidable letters "I.O.U.," one
and all they were signed with the name-
"Sefton Culvers."</p><p>
"A mere bagatelle, my lord," he said,
flippantly; "in all something under five
hundred pounds. But, small as it is, there's
no chance of my getting it out of the
Captain. He has threatened more than
once to pitch me out of the window, or
kick me downstairs, just for asking for
it."</p><p>
"I suppose there can be no doubt that
this is Captain Culvers's writing?" said
Clive, turning to Lord Culvers.</p><p>
Lord Culvers vouched for the genuine-
ness of the signatures.</p><p>
"And not a doubt, sooner or later," he
added, "I shall have to discharge these and
considerably heavier liabilities for my
nephew."</p><p>
It was scarcely the time for parleying
and bargaining; it seemed the wiser course
to cut short delay and write a cheque at
once for the amount.</p><p>
"Now for your story," said Clive, im-
patiently interrupting the man's profuse
and somewhat servile thanks.</p><p>
The story was simple enough, and was
given in one sentence:</p><p>
"I was in the room when Captain
Culvers took the brooch out of his pocket,
and gave it to Marie Schira, after a
theatrical supper which the Captain gave
in the Rue Vervien."</p><p>
"Ah-h!"</p><p>
And Lord Culvers's face expressed great
amazement.</p><p>
"Was any one else present? " asked
Clive, thinking it might be as well to get
the man's words verified.</p><p>
"Only my chum, George Johnson, sir,
who'll vouch for the truth of what I say.
Marie went into raptures over the brooch,
and asked the Captain where he had got
such a pretty thing from. The Captain,
half laughing, said that he had found it on
the floor of a carriage, with its pin broken
as she saw it. Upon which Marie laughed,
and said whoever had dropped it would
never see it again."</p><p>
"On the floor of a carriage!" repeated
Lord Calvers. "That may have been on
his way back to Glynde Lodge after Ida
left him."</p><p>
"Marie was deeply in debt," Skinner
went on, willing to tell any amount of
secrets now that it had been made "worth
his while" to do so. "I suspect that she
herself removed the stones from the
brooch, and disposed of them as best she
could."</p><p>
The explanation seemed feasible enough.
It made plain to Clive that the name of
Culvers so often on poor Marie's lips re-
presented to her mind Sefton, not Sefton's
uncle.</p><p>
Lord Culvers, in great agitation, paced
the room.</p><p>
"I couldn't have believed it of Sefton-
no, not if any one had sworn it!" he ex-
claimed. "One's own flesh and blood!
After this, what may we not expect to
hear?”</p><p>
"So ends the episode of the diamond
brooch," said Clive, bitterly, with an irri-
tating recollection of the manner in which
his father's sagacity had been led astray
on the matter.</p><p>
Then he turned to Skinner.</p><p>
"You can go," he said, a little sharply.
"Of course, we shall take care, one way
or another, to get your statements veri-
fied."</p><p>
But how much of verification either he
or Lord Culvers judged necessary, may be
gathered from the fact that, as the door
closed on the man, they exclaimed simul-
taneously, as with one voice:</p><p>
"Police enquiry on this matter must be
stopped at once."</p><p>
Personally, it would not have troubled
Clive one jot to have seen Sefton Culvers
pilloried before the world, if only the man
himself could have been detached from the
name he bore. That name, however, at
all costs had to be kept untarnished.


</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-17" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h3><p>


When the English mail came in that
day, it brought with it for Clive the letter
over which Juliet had spent so many
hours.</p><p>
He read it aloud to Lord Culvers from
its first to its last word. It commenced
with an earnest one might almost say a
heartbroken-entreaty that Clive would
use his utmost endeavour to persuade Lord
Culvers to call in the aid of the police,
and to move heaven and earth to discover
her darling sister. Her lips, unsealed now
by terror as to what might be that sister's
fate, told fully and freely the story of her
own conjectures and fears, and then went
on to explain the part she had already
played in the matter.</p><p>
"My impression, at first," she wrote,
"was, that Ida and Sefton had had some
desperate quarrel on their way to the
churchyard, and that Ida had made the
visit to mother's grave an excuse for
escaping from him. I fancied that she
had gone to the house of some people
whom she had met in Florence, and whose
exact address I did not know. I thought
that possibly she was corresponding-
circuitously, not giving her address-with
Sefton, trying to make him come to terms
-that is to say, trying to make him con-
sent to her living apart from him, provided
she handed over to him a large portion of
her fortune. I fancied she would not
write to father, for fear he should inter-
fere, and insist on her giving in; but I
expected a line from her at any moment,
telling me what part I was to take in the
matter. When none came, I concluded
that she was afraid to write for fear Peggy
or father might get hold of her letter, and
so trace her out. Then there occurred to
me a safe way in which we might carry on
our correspondence-a way, indeed, which
we had planned together in the old days,
when we found out how fond Peggy was
of peeping into our letters. You know
our dear old Goody lives in a cottage over-
grown with a big yellow rose. She hates
Peggy like poison, and would lay down.
her life for Ida and me. More than once
we have had our letters addressed to us
at the cottage under cover to Goody.</p><p>
"When Ida went off to Biarritz two years
ago, we agreed on a signal that would tell
her when we were at Dering, and she
could write to me at Goody's cottage. It
was that I should seal a letter or news-
paper wrapper, or, in fact, anything I liked
to send, with our grandmother's seal. That
seal I always keep in my writing-desk and
carry about with me. It is an amethyst,
cut with a rose surrounded with the
motto: 'Sub signo et sub rosa.' It is
horrid to be driven to such devices, but, as
you know, we girls were never safe from
Peggy's prying eyes. I've known her take
my blotting paper to the looking-glass,
and, in that fashion, read what and to
whom I had written. So the idea occurred
to me now, that, as I couldn't send Ida a
letter sealed with grandmother's seal, if I
put the motto of the seal as an advertise-
ment in all the newspapers, it would be
sure to catch her eye, tell her that we
were at Dering, and that she could write
to me anything she pleased under cover to
Goody as before. This advertisement
Arthur Glynde inserted at my request-
you may have seen it-in all the leading
English and Continental journals. No
letter, however, has as yet come to me
through Goody, and, though I stay on
here on the chance of getting one, little by
little all hope is leaving me. I am con-
vinced now that my theory, from beginning
to end, has been all wrong, and that
Sefton is as much in the dark as I am as
to Ida's fate. I am all terror and anxiety
as to what has become of my darling
sister.</p><p>
"Oh, Clive, dear, dear Clive, I beg, I
implore you, do not let my father hush
the matter up any longer! I entreat you
give him no rest till he has called in the
aid of the police, and left not a stone un-
turned to end this fearful suspense.</p><p>
"Only do this for me, and I shall be
everlastingly grateful to you. I will do
anything and everything that lies in my
power to make you happy. I will-what
more can I say -at once release you from
your engagement to me. I will promise
never, under any circumstances, to become
your wife; but will remain,</p><p>
"Always your devoted, grateful friend,</p><p>
"JULIET CULVERS."</p><p>
Clive folded the letter and laid it on one
side.</p><p>
The writer and her more than half
ironical promise of reward dwindled in im-
portance before the communications she
had had to make.</p><p>
"The advertisements, of course, are
accounted for now," said Clive, slowly;
"but not Captain Culvers's keen interest in
them. There's something that wants ex-
planation there."</p><p>
Lord Calvera grew thoughtful.</p><p>
"Let me think," he said, presently.
"Juliet's grandmother and Sefton's are
one and the same person-my mother."</p><p>
"Ah-h," said Clive, drawing a long
breath, "and, naturally enough, to Sefton,
as well as to Juliet, would come some of
her jewellery. That is suggestive."</p><p>
"I had entirely forgotten," Lord Culvers
went on, "the seal to which Juliet refers.
It was given to the girls, with a number of
old trinkets, when they were little more
than children."</p><p>
"Similar trinkets may have been given
to Sefton by his father."</p><p>
"No doubt. Now I think of it, there
was a ring-what became of it, I wonder?
It was a jasper set with diamonds, a long,
coffin-shaped thing. Let me think who
had that?"</p><p>
Not for worlds would Clive have in-
terrupted Lord Culvera's train of thought
now.</p><p>
"Yes, I'm sure it was given to my
brother-Sefton's father, that is," he said,
after a moment's pause, "and now I think
of it, there was some device on it-a rose,
I fancy; but I can't be sure what the
motto was. It would be very likely to be
the same as on the seal. No doubt there
was some reason for my mother's fancy for
the device, or it may have been handed
down to her."</p><p>
"Sefton most probably received that
ring from his father," said Clive, slowly
summing up the case, as it were, and
thinking out his ideas as he spoke them.
Now it is possible that he, in his turn,
may have given the ring to some one else
under circumstances that made the gift of
importance;" he broke off for a moment,
then added, with a sudden energy, "there
is a great deal behind all this, I am con-
vinced. I should like amazingly to know
to whom, and under what circumstances,
Captain Culvers has given that ring."</p><p>
The questions to whom, and under what
circumstances Sefton Culvers had given
the ring, with its device of a rose, were to
be answered in a manner Clive little ex-
pected, for at that moment the door
opened, and Sefton himself entered the
room.</p><p>
Entered, not in his usual slow, languid
manner, and with eye-glass ready to
uplift wherewith to stare out of counte-
nance any one who presumed uninvited to
address him; but with a hurried step, and
with a white face, and eyes with a startled
look in them as of a man suddenly sobered
by astounding or terrible news.</p><p>
He lost no time in greeting or hand-
shaking, but going straight to Clive, laid
his hand upon his arm, saying:</p><p>
"Help me! I want your help."</p><p>
Clive stared at him, his bright, promi-
nent eyes seeming almost to start from
his head. Help him! Why, if he had
entered the room pistols in hand, and said,
"Choose your weapon!" it would have
seemed far more natural.</p><p>
Sefton did not give him time to speak
his astonishment. He drew a letter from
his pocket, and bade him read it.</p><p>
Its seal, though broken, showed plainly
enough the device of a rose, surrounded by
a motto. The envelope bore no post-
mark, and it was addressed to "Captain
Culvers," in Ida's handwriting.</p><p>
"It was left at my rooms about half an
hour ago-but by whom I haven't the
remotest idea," continued Sefton.</p><p>
Clive tore the letter from its envelope,
and read as follows:</p><p>
"Alta Lauria.</p><p>
"Come without a moment's delay, and
receive back your ring from dying hands.</p><p>
"IDA."</p><p>
The paper dropped from his nerveless
hand.</p><p>
"Does it mean—" he began, hoarsely,
and then his own words seemed to choke
him.</p><p>
Lord Culvers picked up the letter and
read it, then he, too, turned a white,
stricken face towards Sefton,</p><p>
"Tell us, quickly, for Heaven's sake!"
cried Clive, "does she refer to her wedding-
ring, or to what?"</p><p>
He had thought that the mere sight of
Ida's writing once more would be bound to
send them all down on their knees in
gratitude to Heaven; but there was
nothing to thank Heaven for in such a
letter as this.</p><p>
Sefton answered slowly and gloomily:</p><p>
"I know no more than you do to what
ring she refers, whether to her wedding-
ring or to the ring which sealed that letter,
and which was given by me to-to some
one else. Nor do I know whether the
dying hands she speaks of are her own or
that other person's. I only know for
certain that Alta Lauria is the last place in
the world for my wife to be in-for special
reasons-reasons that you must know now
—that I must tell—"</p><p>
He broke off abruptly, he was evidently
driving himself to speak.</p><p>
"Never mind about your special reasons,"
said Clive, brusquely, "tell us where this
place is, and how we can get to it without
a moment's delay."</p><p>
"Unfortunately there must be hours of
delay before we can even start for it. It
is in Calabria, among the mountains, and
not a train will leave for Naples before six
to-night. I know the road to that accursed
place only too well," said Sefton, gloomily
as before.</p><p>
"Sefton, answer me this," said Lord
Culvers, in an agitated tone. "Was the
person to whom you gave that ring a
woman, and was your faith due to her?"</p><p>
Sefton turned and faced him defiantly.</p><p>
"Don't ask me any questions," he said,
fiercely. "I'll tell you all-all, that is,
you need know. It's a long story; but,
unfortunately, there's time enough and to
spare to tell it before we can start."</p><p>
But Clive had to be convinced of this-
had to fetch and to study railway guides,
and maps, and lines of route before he
could be persuaded that a weary three
hours must elapse before they could so
much as take the first step in a journey
that might end Heaven only knew how.



</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-18" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVIII</h3><p>


Sefton's story, told in short, abrupt
sentences, and with as little detail as pos-
sible, was, after all, nothing more than the
old one of plighted faith and broken troth,
that the world has heard so often.</p><p>
It dated eighteen months back, when
Captain Culvers had returned with his
regiment from India. He had arrived in
England in the middle of a bleak English
March, and had been advised by his
doctors not to attempt to face it in his
enfeebled state of health, but to start at
once for the south of Europe. Accord-
ingly, with a brother officer, he had set off
on a tour through south Italy, intending
to make Naples his head-quarters, and
thence diverge a little out of the beaten
track of the tourist into less frequented
regions. At Naples, however, his brother
officer had caught the Neapolitan fever,
and, after a time, had been compelled to
return to England. So Sefton continued
his excursions without companionship.
After scouring the Abruzzi, he had
diverged into Calabria, and, in spite of
bad roads, miserable inns, and fever in
all directions, had penetrated into the
mountainous region of La Sila.</p><p>
And here, in the heart of the country
where the bandit, "Peter the Calabrian,"
self-styled "Emperor of the Mountains, and
King of the Woods," had held alike his
camp and his court, and where Peter's
descendants and representatives lead as
marauding and indolent a life as modern
Italian civilisation permits, Sefton fell ill
with fever, and went nigh to losing his
life. His quarters were a miserable hut-
miscalled inn-on the edge of the forest
whence Peter and his co-marauders used
to emerge to strike terror into the heart
of wayfarers. There was no doctor within
twenty miles-a distance doubled by the
rocky roads. The people of the inn, there-
fore, called in to his aid the wise woman
of the place-a certain Francesca Xardez,
who, with remedies assuredly not to be
found in any modern Pharmacopœia,
brought him back to health.</p><p>
This Francesca Xardez was a person of
no small importance in Alta Lauria, the
mountain-hamlet where Sefton had fallen
ill. To begin with, chance had put her in
the way of receiving a better education than
generally falls to the lot of the Italian
peasant. Also in her young days she had
been something of a traveller, and had
visited several of the cities of Continental
Europe.</p><p>
Thirdly and lastly, and what added
most to her prestige among the rough
mountaineers, she was foster-mother to
the only child of the chief landowner in
the place, the Marchese da Nava; her
husband was the Marchese's head-bailiff,
her six sons were shepherds, vine-dressers,
or in some other way employed upon his
estate.</p><p>
In addition, her nurse-child, Violante,
was devotedly attached to her.</p><p>
This Marchese da Nava was a widower,
and a man close upon seventy years of age,
when Sefton visited Alta Lauria. Late
in life he had married a peasant girl in
the place, who had died, leaving him with
this one child, Violante.</p><p>
Although feudalism has been banished
from Italy, the feudal spirit survives in the
wilder and more mountainous regions.
The bond between peer and peasant in
parts of Calabria is of a kind to which
northern Europe offers no parallel. The
Marchese was poor as a Marchese could
well be, for his large estates consisted to
a great extent of exhausted mines, hill
pasture-land, and mountains, sloping down
in ridges to the dense forests of gigantic
oloander, arbutus, and wild olive, which
cover the sites of forgotten battle-fields.
He was also a man of ungovernable
temper; his household was ill-arranged
and disorderly, and his sense of obligation
as a land-owner nil. Nevertheless, the
devotion of the peasantry to him was un-
swerving, and his will as much a law to
them as if it had been passed into one by
Senate, and would be put into force by
Carabinieri.</p><p>
As for Violante, she was simply the
darling and the idol of these rude
mountaineers. With a temper nearly as
violent as her father's, she combined a
beauty met with nowhere save in the
mixed races of Magna Græcia. Ill-
trained, and all but uneducated, she had
grown up among them half-princess, half-
peasant, related on her father's side to
some of the noblest houses in Italy,
and owning on her mother's side to near
relatives among the poorest and most
debased of the vine-dressers and shepherds
of Alta Lauria. She was one with the
peasants in all their joys and sorrows, and
it was no unusual thing for this last
representative of a race that had held sway
in the district for centuries, to be seen in
her foster-mother's cottage eating maca-
roni and drinking wine side by side with
her foster-brothers, Giorno the vine-dresser,
or Pippo the little goat-herd.</p><p>
It was no wonder that when Francesca
was called in to administer her remedies
to the handsome young Englishman,
Violante should accompany her, nor that,
later on, when the Englishman, restored to
health, called on his skilful doctress to offer
her his thanks, Violante should have been
found in the cottage eating eggs and
vermicelli with her peasant foster-brothers.</p><p>
On the fascination which this beautiful
half-educated girl soon grew to have for
him Sefton touched but lightly. It
was, on his side, a delirium that came
to an end with the summer's moon
under which it had had its birth. While
it lasted, however, it led him over the
bounds of prudence, and he accepted an
invitation from the Marchese to make the
Palazzo his head-quarters, and thence visit
the places of interest in the neighbourhood.</p><p>
And before the first week of his visit
had come to an end, he had made Violante
an offer of marriage which, with her father's
approval, she had accepted.</p><p>
Then with a start he had awakened
from his dream of passion, and told
himself what a fool he had been to think
of introducing the ill-trained, half-educated,
and penniless Violante to his aristocratic
English friends as his wife. He set his
wits to work to find a way out of the
entanglement, and could see one only
—flight. That even to be accomplished
successfully had to be craftily contrived, for
he had no mind to run the gauntlet of the
stilettoes or bullets of Violante's numerous
foster-brothers or half-savage cousins. So,
under pretext of a journey to England to
prepare his mother to receive his beautiful
bride, he had said good-bye to the
Marchese and Violante, begging them
during his absence to make all preparations
for the wedding-day, and promising a
speedy return.</p><p>
That promise, it need scarcely be said,
had never been fulfilled.</p><p>
After his flight from Alta Lauria, Captain
Culvers had remained for some months in
Paris, and there had drifted into dissipa-
tions that had left an indelible mark on
his character. For some time after his
return to England he had lived in the
expectation of the story of the Calabrian
episode in some way or other becoming
known, and of his character suffering ac-
cordingly.</p><p>
It was under the influence of this feeling
that he had resigned his commission.
When, however, a year passed by, and
Violante's friends made no sign, he con-
cluded that the matter had blown over,
and did his best to dismiss it from his
thoughts.</p><p>
He ended his story, saying that he had
never in remotest fancy connected Ida's
disappearance with this episode in bis life e;
nor could he in any way explain how nor
by whom she had been inveigled into that
"accursed Alta Lauria-a nest of wild,
hot-blooded ruffians."</p><p>
With reference to Ida's disappearance,
his impression from first to last had
been either that she and Juliet were playing
off some trick on him, doing their utmost,
in fact, to make him look like a fool, or else
that Ida, having come to the conclusion
that married life with him would be an
impossibility, had taken the first step in a
plan which she and Juliet had arranged
together, and of which he would hear
more anon. He would give his "word
of honour" that this was the simple
truth so far as he was concerned.</p><p>
The phrase, his "word of honour," came
jarringly as "Finis " to such a narrative.</p><p>
For a few minutes there fell a dead
silence in the room-a silence, however,
which, to Sefton's fancy, seemed charged
with the contempt and scorn that not a
doubt his two hearers felt for him.</p><p>
Lord Culvers was the first to break that
silence.</p><p>
"My dead brother's only son!" was
all he said by way of comment on the
tale.</p><p>
He did not hurl the words at his
nephew, challenging reply and defence;
they came rather as the words of a sigh
that could not be repressed.</p><p>
Sefton turned upon him fiercely.</p><p>
"Surrounded with such a set of desperate
ruffians, there was no course but flight
open to me. You, yourself, in the circum-
stances, would have done precisely the same
thing."</p><p>
Clive felt that it was not the time for
either attack or defence. His business
training and daily companionship with his
father had taught him one thing if nothing
else that to lose self-control at a crisis in
affairs, meant to let go the helm and let the
vessel drive.</p><p>
"The most terrible part of the whole
thing is that Ida should be in the midst of
such a den at the present moment," he in-
terposed, hurriedly. "We must put every
thought but this out of our minds."</p><p>
Personally he felt such a course to be
imperative. Here was he compelled, by
force of circumstances, to act the comrade
to a man whom he would have delighted
to call a scoundrel to his face. Once give
his tongue license, and that comradeship
must collapse.</p><p>
Lord Culvers made no reply. He was
wandering slowly, helplessly almost, round
the room, collecting papers and other of
his possessions, with which he had littered
Clive's sitting-room earlier in the day.</p><p>
It was easy to see his intention.</p><p>
"You wouldn't be fit for it. You'd
break down before we got across the
frontier," said Sefton, a little roughly, but
not unkindly.</p><p>
"It will be easy to telegraph to you
daily-every few hours, if you like-and
then you can follow us step by step, as it
were," said Clive.</p><p>
And then, taking out his pencil, with
Sefton's aid he jotted down various stations
from which they could despatch their
telegrams, and where also they could
receive them should need arise.</p><p>
Lord Culvers allowed himself to be per-
suaded. To impede the young men at
such a time would have been sheer folly;
and it was impossible to disguise even
from himself the fact that in his present
depressed and nervous condition, he could
be nothing but an impediment to them.</p><p>
"And there is something to be done in
Paris," pursued Clive, anxious once more
to rouse Lord Culvers from his depression
by turning his attention to the practical
details of the "situation.” "The Prefect
of Police, not a doubt, must be told of the
turn affairs have taken; he may have sugges-
tions to make that may be of value to us—
you can telegraph them to us, you know,
at one of the stations we have named."</p><p>
Sefton, at any rate, had a suggestion to
make to Clive as he strapped together his
hand-portmanteau, and he made it in a
voice so low that it did not reach Lord
Culvers's ear. It was:</p><p>
"Whatever you do or don't take with
you, don't forget your revolver. Mine is
in my breast-pocket."</p><p>
As the train by which Clive and Sefton
started on the first stage of their journey
was about to move from the platform, two
persons, hurriedly passing through the
barrier, swung themselves into a third-
class compartment. One of these two was
a man of about five-and-twenty, a hand-
some, reckless, insolent looking young
fellow, wearing a slouch hat and a gay
necktie; the other was a black-eyed, olive-
skinned boy, with a barrel-organ and a
monkey.



</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-19" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</h3><p>



"Mother, it is done-Juliet will be
happy. Oh, that I could lie down to rest
beside you now!"</p><p>
These were the words with which Ida
laid her bridal flowers on her mother's
grave.</p><p>
Then bowing her head on a corner of
the marble monument, her tears fell thick
and fast upon the white slab on which it
rested.</p><p>
The sacrifice she had planned was
finished; her nerves had been as steel
and her heart as stone till her self-imposed
obligation had been fulfilled to its utter-
most letter. Now the inevitable reaction
was setting in, and she was beginning to
count the cost of what she had done.</p><p>
And the cost, when counted, could be
summed up in a sentence-the happiness
of her life to its very last hour.</p><p>
The renunciation of Clive and his love
had been bitter enough; but even that to
her fancy now counted as nothing beside
the terrible bondage into which she had
voluntarily entered by becoming the wife of
a man for whom she had neither liking nor
respect.</p><p>
When she had played the part of a
scornful, cold-hearted maiden, and had
sent Clive from her side to pay court to
Juliet, and also, later on, when, in order to
put Juliet's happiness beyond a doubt, she
had consented to marry Sefton, she had
said to herself:</p><p>
"What does anything in life matter, so
long as those two are happy!"</p><p>
Now, however, as she faced the fact that
nothing but death could release her from
the fealty which she had just vowed to a
man whom she thoroughly despised, her
heart failed her, and she stood appalled at
the thought of the dreary years that
stretched before her-a "life of night with
never a hope of dawn."</p><p>
It was no wonder, with thoughts such
as these, that her tears should fall thick
and fast; nor that she should moan to
the mother who had been laid to rest so
long ago: "Would that I were lying
beside you now!"</p><p>
The sunshine gleamed whitely on the
many tombstones. A light breeze, fresh
with the salt of the sea, fanned the hill-
side, and ruffled the long grasses amid
which she stood. A lark rose from the
turf, and went soaring upwards into the
"living blue," high and higher, till it
became literally a "sightless song." A
woman rose slowly from a gravestone on
which she was seated a few yards distant,
and, with a slow, hesitating tread, drew
near the sorrowing girl.</p><p>
Ida had been so absorbed in her own
sad thoughts as she had made her way
towards her mother's grave, that she had
not noticed a group of three persons seated
among the tombstones, who had started,
and then exchanged glances one with the
other at her approach.</p><p>
A picturesque group these three made
among the white tombstones and tall,
flowering grasses. The woman, who was
about forty-five years of age, was dark-
skinned and handsome, with the beauty of
South Italy; she was dressed in a pretty
peasant's costume-a dark-blue skirt with
broad orange border, and wore on her
head a white panni-cloth. Beside her,
lounging on the grass, was a fine-featured,
insolent - looking young man, with gay
necktie, and slouch hat tilted over his eyes
to keep out the dazzling sunshine. A
little in the rear of these two, a black-
eyed, olive-skinned boy stood resting his
barrel-organ against some iron railings that
enclosed a monument, and on his organ
was perched a monkey, gravely munching
a green apple.</p><p>
These three persons were Francesca
Xardez, Giorno her eldest son, and Pippo
her youngest.</p><p>
Pippo had leaned forward, touched his
mother's shoulder, and whispered in her
ear as Ida approached, and passed within
a few yards of them. Upon which Fran-
cesca had started, and exclaimed, "O gran
cielo! Non è possibile!" and then she
had risen to her feet, and with slow,
hesitating steps, had made her way towards
the young lady.</p><p>
Ida did not turn her head until she
heard a deep voice saying, at her elbow, in
Italian:</p><p>
"This is fate! Signora, can you under-
stand me?"</p><p>
Ida understood her easily enough. Her
recent frequent visits to Italy to study art
had familiarised her with the Italian
language.</p><p>
She naturally enough concluded that the
woman was begging, and, wishing to keep
her own sad solitude unbroken, took out
her purse at once, and offered her some
money.</p><p>
Francesca shook her head.</p><p>
"Not that from you!" she exclaimed.
"It is not possible. I saw you married
this morning to a man who--" she
broke off abruptly, then again asked the
question: "Signora, do you understand me?"</p><p>
Ida was startled, her curiosity was
excited to a painful degree.</p><p>
"A man who-what?" she asked, con-
tinuing the conversation in Italian. "Yes,
I understand you easily-finish what you
were going to say."</p><p>
Francesca looked at her steadily.</p><p>
"Yes, it is fate," she said, in the same
slow, deep tones as before. "I saw you
 this morning in your beautiful white dress,
 and I said to myself, 'I see her once now,
 and I see her no more again for ever,' and
lo, Fate sends me here to rest among the
 graves, and then sends you here with your
 beautiful flowers, and we meet!"</p><p>
 Ida grew impatient.</p><p>
"If you have anything to say to me you
must say it quickly," she said, "for I
cannot spare you many minutes."</p><p>
"And when you have heard what I have
to tell, you will say, 'would that Heaven
had smitten my ears with deafness before
they had listened to such a tale.'”</p><p>
Ida grew white.</p><p>
"What is it tell me quickly," she said;
"is it anything about-Captain Culvers?"</p><p>
The words "my husband" would not
come to her lips.</p><p>
Francesca's swarthy face flushed with
anger at the mention of the name.
"Signora," she said, in low but vehement
tones, "if that man had his due it would
be a stiletto into his heart. Ah, I would
that I had dealt him his death - blow,
instead of bringing him back to life to
play the lover and the traitor." She
spoke in such hurried, passionate tones,
that it was with difficulty that Ida caught |
her meaning.</p><p>
"You must speak slowly and quietly if
you want me to understand you," she said,
feeling that behind all this passion and
vehemence there no doubt lay something
which it behoved her to know.</p><p>
Then Francesca, controlling herself with
difficulty, told the story of Sefton Culvers's
visit to Calabria.</p><p>
It was carried beyond the point at which
Sefton had left it in his narrative to Lord
Culvers and Clive, and told of events that
had occurred after his departure from Alta
Lauria.</p><p>
First in order had ensued the death of
the Marchese. This had happened within a
month after Sefton had left the place, and
had overwhelmed Violante with grief; a
grief that had increased upon her to the de-
triment of her health as the weeks passed
by and there came no tidings of her absent
lover. Sefton had been very cautious in
giving information to Violante and her
father respecting himself and his family,
and the only address he had left with her
was at an hotel in London where he oc-
casionally stayed. To that hotel again
and again Violante addressed imploring
letters, to which, as a matter of course,
there came no reply.</p><p>
At first the girl had found it impossible
to realise that the man in whom she had so
implicitly trusted had proved false, and
that deliberate insult was intended to one
of her name and race. She insisted on
believing that some accident had befallen
him, and announced her intention of
setting off for England to ascertain if such
were the case. Illness prevented her
putting her intention into execution;
malarial fever, always prone to attack the
weak and ailing, seized her, and for some
time her life was despaired of. Even after
the fever had run its course and she had
been pronounced convalescent, it did not
need a skilled eye to see that her con-
stitution had been seriously undermined.
A great lassitude took possession of her;
she ate next to nothing, living entirely on
granita and fruit; took no exercise, and
showed no interest whatever in the people
and things around her. Then it was that
Francesca had thought that the time to act
had come. She had been the one who
had brought the man back to life to act
the part of lover and traitor, she would be
the one to hunt him down, find out the
truth about him, and— Here Francesca
broke off abruptly, furtively glancing into
Ida's eyes, which, during the whole of the
story, had not once been lifted from her
face.</p><p>
She resumed her narrative at another
point, telling of the difficulty with which
they had got together sufficient money for
the journey. How that Violante had given
her every penny she had in the world in
order to buy Pippo an organ, with which it
was hoped the scanty purse might be eked
out, and how that Giorno's passage to
Inghilterra had been clubbed together for
by his fellow vine-dressers, who one and
all would willingly have laid down
their lives to give their darling young lady
the desire of her heart.</p><p>
Francesca had a relative in London who
was an ice and sweetmeat seller. To his
house the three made their way first on
their arrival in England, and, thanks to his
good offices and the use of an Army List
and a Burke's Peerage, they succeeded in
coming upon the traces of Captain Culvers.
At least, so far as to ascertain that he had
resigned his commission in the Army, and
that he had near relatives who owned to a
country house at Dering and a town house
in Belgrave Square.</p><p>
Then it was that Pippo and his organ
had become useful. The little fellow, with
his handsome face and merry ways,
managed to win favour with the servants
of Lord Culvers's town household, and
found out through them that Captain
Culvers would shortly be married at
Hastings to his cousin.</p><p>
After ascertaining full particulars of this
wedding, the three had started for Hastings.
They did not, however, succeed in reaching
the church until the service had begun and
the doors were closed. So they had stood
in the porch waiting till the ceremony was
over, and there had seen the bride pass out
of the church and down the steps to her
carriage.</p><p>
Then they had wandered away among
the tombs at the back of the church, there
to eat their frugal meal of bread and
cheese. And to hold council with each
other, too, it seemed, for, until Ida's unex-
pected appearance, they had been absorbed
in earnest, low-voiced talk, in which
Giorno's deep bass voice seemed to take
a leading part.</p><p>
"We will not lose sight of him. If she
dies let him look out-that's all," Giorno
was saying at the moment that Pippo
touched his mother's shoulder and warned
her of Ida's approach.</p><p>
"His bride," thought the woman. "Shall
they love, shall they be happy? Ah, I will
plant the seeds of strife between them,
and, please the saints, they will grow!"
And then she had crossed the churchyard
and had accosted the young lady.</p><p>
Ida had listened to the tale, saying never
a word, her face growing white and whiter,
her features seeming to harden as if they
were being turned into stone.</p><p>
Then a great wave of indignation swept
over her.</p><p>
This the man whom she had vowed to
love and honour, to cleave to till death
parted them! Impossible! If there
were no other way, death should part them
at once.</p><p>
But there was another way. It did not
for a moment occur to her to go back to
her father and insist on a separation from
her newly-made husband.</p><p>
No, she could not see her father
arranging such a separation, although
easily enough she could picture him
endeavouring to patch up a peace between
Sefton and herself, and doing his utmost
to induce them to live together as husband
and wife.</p><p>
Her hope of deliverance seemed to lie
in another quarter. She would go at once
straight to Alta Lauria to the discarded
Violante, and ask her to receive as her
guest one who was more unhappy in her
wifehood than was the girl in her slighted
maidenhood. To Violante's presence she
would summon her father to hear the
girl's story from her own lips. And Sefton
likewise should be summoned, and there,
face to face with the two women he had
wronged, he should be made to sign a
deed of separation that would guarantee
to his wife her freedom to the last hour of
her life.</p><p>
The mere thought of her possible release
from bondage set the blood dancing in her
veins, and brought back the colour to her
cheek.</p><p>
 Francesca heard, with unconcealed
 amazement, of the young lady's resolve.
 For a moment she said nothing. Then,
pointing to Giorno, still lying on the grass
 with his hat tilted over his eyes, she said
 that she must go and consult her son as to
 whether the thing were possible.</p><p>
There had followed a short whispered
colloquy between the two, at the end of
which Francesca had come back, saying
respectfully that if the young lady would
trust herself to her guidance, she would
conduct her safely to Alta Lauria.</p><p>
Then had succeeded a necessary arrange-
ment of plans. Pippo was despatched to
see if Captain Calvers were still patiently
awaiting his bride in the street below, and
Ida and Francesca, leaving the churchyard
by its back entrance, had made their way
along by-streets to the church of "Saint
Mary, Star of the Sea," whither Pippo had
directions to follow them.</p><p>
It was in the church of "Saint Mary,
Star of the Sea," that Ida, tearing a leaf
from her note-book, had written the
hurried line to her father which Pippo
had carried to Glynde Lodge.</p><p>
There, too, they had arranged the suc-
cessive steps of their journey. Ida would
travel alone to London, leaving by a train
from Hastings station, not Saint Leonard's,
where her maid was awaiting her. An
excursion train, Francesca said, left in an
hour or so, and in the crowd and hurry
that usually attends the departure of such
a train, it was not likely that the quietly-
dressed young lady would attract attention.</p><p>
Once in London, with a thick veil, a
long cloak, and-necessary item!-a full
purse, no difficulties in the way of a
journey to South Italy had need to be
anticipated.



</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-20" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XX</h3><p>




Ida's spirit and determination held out
as far as to Naples. Then the fatigue and
excitement of the journey began to tell
upon her, her strength gave way, and she
was confined to her bed for nearly a week
in the quiet hotel where she had taken up
her quarters.</p><p>
Throughout that week Francesca waited
on her with unremitting attention and the
respectful solicitude of an attached maid.</p><p>
During the long hours of the wakeful
nights the girl's resolution began some-
what to waver, and she asked herself one
or two questions, to which it was not
easy to find satisfactory answers. Such
as:</p><p>
Was this hurried flight and impetuous
action altogether the best way of meeting
difficulties which she could not deny she
had brought upon herself? Would it not
have been wiser to have taken time to
consider the matter, and have called into
counsel some older and wiser head than
her own?</p><p>
It seemed impossible, however, to
answer these questions with either a yea
or a nay; so she put them on one side,
telling herself that she had gone too far to
retreat now. It was altogether too late to
think of retracing her steps. It would
seem puerile to her father and her friends
if she were to return, having accomplished
but half of her journey and her purpose.
It would be, in fact, tantamount to a con-
fession of her own inability to manage
her own affairs; and she must be pre-
pared to see them taken out of her hands
and managed for her.</p><p>
So as soon as her strength rallied some-
what, she set off on the other half of her
journey, making Francesca understand
that the more quickly it was got through
the better pleased she would be.</p><p>
From Naples they went direct to Cosenza,
and thence they diverged through a nest
of small villages into the district dominated
by the Sila Mountains, among which Alta
Lauria is situated.</p><p>
The country through which she travelled
was new to her, and at any other time she
would have been enchanted alike with its
majestic grandeur and its desolation. Now,
however, with the pressure of conflicting
thoughts distracting her, both were lost
upon her.</p><p>
Three days of continuous and tiring
travel gave her her first view of the
Palazzo of Alta Lauria, crushed in, as it
were, between stupendous rocks, high over
a well-wooded ravine, in which lay hidden
all that called itself the hamlet.</p><p>
Violante having been warned by tele-
gram from Naples of her intended visit,
Ida confidently expected, so soon as
the courtyard gates of the Palazzo opened
to receive her, that there would be its girl-
mistress awaiting her, and that then
together they would exchange confidences.
and sympathy.</p><p>
No such result ensued. She was ushered
into a small, scantily furnished, and de-
cidedly untidy room by a bare-legged
peasant boy, and there Francesca left her to
her own devices for nearly an hour, while
she went to Violante's apartment.</p><p>
The ill-kept exterior of the Palazzo did
 not promise much in the way of comfort for
 its interior. Ida was nevertheless struck
 with astonishment at the poverty and
 disorder which on every side proclaimed
 itself. A third-rate albergo would have
 supplied better entertainment than was to
fall to her lot during her sojourn in that
ancient Palazzo.</p><p>
Francesca, returning from her long
colloquy with her young mistress, apolo-
gised somewhat for the condition of things;
but then, she said, what would you have?
The honoured Maestro of the house was
dead, and its young mistress-ah, she was
so ill, so ill! She had thought for nothing;
she could not even see the English Signora
—not that day, at least-but to-morrow,
next day, perhaps. Would the Signora
have patience and wait a day or so?</p><p>
And then Francesca had again disap-
peared, and her place was taken by an
untidy little maid, who spoke an odd
patois utterly unintelligible to Ida, and
seemed at a loss to understand Ida's
Italian.</p><p>
This was the case with the other servants
of the house. They were but few in
number, and they one and all presented
the appearance of untidy, ill-educated
peasants, assuredly not that of trained
domestics. And they one and all spoke
the odd mixture of Italian and Greek
known as Calabrese.</p><p>
To add to the discomfort of the whole
thing, the fare was of the coarsest and
most frugal, and the sleeping accommo-
dation corresponded in quality. The rooms
were small; the heat was intolerable; the
buzzing of the insects and the noise of
the cicale alone were sufficient to prevent
sleep.</p><p>
On the third day after her arrival Ida
began to feel that the journey so im-
petuously undertaken was a mistake from
first to last, and bethought her of writing
home to her father and Juliet stating the
facts of the case, and explaining her reasons
for not writing sooner.</p><p>
First, however, she thought she would
finally ascertain if there were any likelihood
of obtaining an interview with Violante.</p><p>
To this end she despatched the untidy
little waiting-maid in search of Francesca,
who had seemed oddly enough to have pur-
posely kept out of her way since the day of
her arrival. But before the little maid could
have had time to deliver her message,
Francesca herself, agitated and weeping
passionately, entered the room.</p><p>
Violante was dying-could not live
more than a week, if that said the doctor,
who had been hastily summoned from
Cosenza.</p><p>
She wished to see the Englishman who
had broken faith with her once more,
give him back his ring with her own
hand, and bid him an everlasting adieu.
Would the Signora send him a letter that
would bring him without a moment's
delay?</p><p>
Ida at once consented to do so. To
summon her husband and her father to
the bedside of the dying girl would be one
step in the programme she had planned.
So she wrote a hurried line to her husband,
and immediately after a second and longer
letter to her father explaining matters,
and begging him to accompany Sefton to
Alta Lauria.</p><p>
Francesca did not see any necessity for
posting the letter to Lord Culvers, so it
was torn in fragments and tossed into the
kitchen fire.</p><p>
The letter to Sefton, however, she care-
fully sealed with Violante's ring in order to
render it the more impressive, and then
transmitted through the post to Giorno,
who, with Pippo, remained in Paris, keep-
ing an eye on Captain Culvers.



</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-21" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXI</h3><p>


To the last hour of his life Clive will
never forget that swift yet tedious journey
to the south undertaken under such strange
conditions. Had any one said to him only
yesterday, "Out of the whole human race
can you single out your enemy?" he
would at once have replied affirmatively
with the name of Sefton Culvers. Yet
here was he to-day playing the part of a
sworn friend to this man, the part, indeed,
that could be expected of none but a sworn
friend, starting, at a moment's notice, on a
quest out of which all he could hope to
receive by way of payment would be the
pleasure of looking upon another man's
happiness.</p><p>
For, stifle the thought as he might, again
and again would it present itself: "By-and-
by you will have to stand by and see this
husband and wife kiss each other on the
lips, and join hands in reconciliation, and
then nothing more will fall to your share
but to drop out of their lives for ever."</p><p>
During the long night hours of their
journey, with his nerves strung to their
tightest, and his brain active in conjuring
up terrors and horrible possibilities, Clive
tried to face this thought in its bare
hideousness, and, as it were, look it out of
 countenance. The effort was futile. Face
it as much as he liked, he could never look
away its ugliness. The mere endeavour to
do so was something equivalent to running
the point of a stiletto into his flesh, and
crying out, "See here! The farther I
send it in the less I shall feel it."</p><p>
Perhaps, after all, what gave the sting to
these bitter thoughts was the knowledge
of Sefton Calvers's unworthiness. Clive's
worst enemies had never accused him of
priggishness, he had been known to stand up
for more than one man who had, as the
phrase goes, "gone under," and plead “ex-
tenuating circumstances" where most men
would have said "serve him right." Those,
however, had been cases which had not
come so nearly home to him. He had
seen the unworthiness of other men, he
felt the unworthiness of Sefton Culvers—
therein lay the whole of the difference.</p><p>
It was not, then, surprising that with
thoughts such as these he could throw
but little warmth into his intercourse
with the man to whom he had been thus
suddenly called upon to act the comrade.</p><p>
Sefton, on his part, showed no disposi-
tion to bridge the distance between them.</p><p>
His demeanour throughout the journey
was gloomy and abstracted, broken now
and again by sudden fits of stormy,
reckless defiance, in which he talked a
good deal about being a first-rate shot;
and threatened to teach those skulking,
cowardly vagabonds a sharp lesson. These
fits, however, grew rarer as the journey
progressed, and his demeanour became less
that of a man nerving himself to meet a
crisis with energy and decision, than of
one compelling himself to stoicism and
despair.</p><p>
Clive noting this change of manner set it
down to the conviction-gaining strength in
his own mind-that it was to Ida's dying
bed they had been summoned, and that the
ring to be resigned was a wedding-ring
which she judged ought never to have
been placed upon her finger.</p><p>
A wild, irrepressible feeling that could
be called exultation compared with other
moods filled his mind at the thought. To
see Ida on her death-bed resigning a ring
she had never prized to its unworthy
donor, would be to see her soul set free
from bondage. That would be a sorrow
that became a joy beside the thought of a
peace patched up between this uncongenial
husband and wife, and years of dreary
companionship to be passed together.</p><p>
"The fever is the greatest danger she
runs, there can be no other," he blurted
out once, impetuously, as he and Sefton
paced the platform at Naples waiting for
the train that was to bear them on the latter
half of their journey. "She is an English-
woman-the daughter of an English peer.
She is staying in the house of an Italian
nobleman. They would never dare to offer
her insult or even annoyance."</p><p>
Sefton's reply contradicted every one of
his suppositions.</p><p>
"To my mind," he said, gloomily,
"fever is the very least of her dangers.
Take the facts of the case and judge for
yourself. Supposing that you had offended
past forgiveness, not one person only, but
a whole community, a set of lawless, in-
solent, ill-conditioned people, glad of any
excuse to execute a vendetta-a vendetta,
believe me, is far from being a thing of the
past in Italy, in some places the authori-
ties take no notice whatever of its per-
petration. Tell me, would you like the
person who had partly been the cause of
this offence to be planted in the midst of
such a set of ruffians without any protection
whatever?"</p><p>
There could be but one answer to such
a question, and for a few minutes there fell
a pause, which the two men made busy
with gloomy thoughts.</p><p>
"Then," said Clive, presently, "you
imagine Ida's letter to you was written
under compulsion? I imagined it to
be-"</p><p>
He broke off abruptly, remembering to
whom he was talking.</p><p>
The finish of his sentence would have
been:</p><p>
"The natural outburst of indignation
that a high-spirited girl would feel at a
sudden revelation of treachery."</p><p>
"Perhaps written under compulsion, or
perhaps under persuasion, for they are a
wily people these south Italians," answered
Sefton. "But, in any case, however written,
it serves their purpose-"</p><p>
He broke off abruptly; his face, on
which a gas-lamp overhead threw a flicker-
ing light, showed white and rigid.</p><p>
"What purpose?" asked Clive, for
Sefton's voice had an odd, jarring note in
it.</p><p>
"Of a decoy," answered Sefton, shortly;
and then he turned on his heel, and left
Clive to ruminate over a new train of
thought.</p><p>
It was a train of thought which stirred
the very depths of his nature, and made
him feel that the angels of darkness were
coming about him in new shapes now.
Great Heavens! The monsters with which
the Greek heroes did battle in old time
were comely compared with these.</p><p>
He rallied his forces, and resolved to
beat them down.</p><p>
"I am a man," he cried, in spirit.
"There is such a thing as duty! I will
sweep my heart clean of all thoughts
rather than entertain such monsters as
these. If danger threaten Culvers I will
stand by him as if he were my dearest
friend.</p><p>
And it so chanced that at the very
moment that Clive was making up his
mind, in spite of all temptations and
adverse circumstances, to listen to the
voice of duty, Ida, by another road, was
arriving at the conclusion that life was in-
tended to be something other than a play-
ground where people could pluck flowers
and chase butterflies to their hearts' con-
tent.</p><p>
Death had speeded more quickly on his
way to Alta Lauria than had these
travellers on theirs; and as the two men
stood waiting for their train at Naples,
Violante's wayward, love-sick soul had
struggled forth from its worn and wasted
tenement.</p><p>
Her eyes had been fixed upon the door,
waiting for it to open and admit the man
who had played her so ill a turn, and her
ears had strained for the sound of his foot-
steps to her very last breath.</p><p>
Francesca's grief took a strange form.
She was a passionate, impetuous woman,
apt to speak her thoughts as they rose in
her mind, and noisy alike in grief and in
joy, yet when she stood beside the white,
lifeless form, not a sound passed her lips,
not a tear stood in her eye.</p><p>
She went silently from the chamber of
death to the room where Ida was preparing
to go to rest for the night, and laying her
hand on the girl's arm, said only:</p><p>
"Come, see his work!"</p><p>
Ida understood her, and silently fol-
lowed the way she led.</p><p>
It was the first time the girl had ever
stood beside a bed of death, and a great awe
filled her soul as she stood looking down
on the beautiful, rigid face, and thin hands
clasped as if in prayer. The priest had
administered the last rites of the Church
early in the day, and naught remained to
be done but to dress the maiden for her
last long sleep.</p><p>
The great candles placed on either side
of the bed had not yet been lighted;
nevertheless, the room was not dark. A
glorious summer's moon, which filled in
the window-panes with a landscape of sky
and mountain of surpassing grandeur,
poured a flood of silver light on Violante's
girlish features, impressing upon them a
supernatural and spiritual beauty that in
life they had never known.</p><p>
"How beautiful! How awful!" ex-
claimed Ida.</p><p>
Then, moved by a sudden impulse, and
heedless of Francesca's presence, she knelt
down beside the dead girl, covering her
face with her hands.</p><p>
It was an act of homage-of submission
alike to the great law and to the greater
Law-Giver.</p><p>
And as she knelt thus in that dread
presence, with senses sealed to all outward
things, a rush of thoughts came to her.</p><p>
How vain seemed life with its passions
and longings! This girl was but one of
thousands who, as it were, beat out their
souls with their hopes and dreads. Had
not she herself been doing the same thing,
though in another fashion? Were not
her feet bent on running much the same
course? Where would it land her at
last? To gratify her pride-her dignity,
as she had called it-had she not in a
moment of passion tossed all her solemnly.
undertaken obligations to the four winds
of heaven?</p><p>
Now when Death came to her side-as
come he must-with his weights and
scales, how light and poor a thing that
pride and dignity would seem! Ah, how
poor and contemptible everything in life
would seem, except that which, begun in
Time, finds its fruition in Eternity-
duty!


</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-22" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXII</h3><p>

The news of Violante's death met Clive
and Sefton at Caréno, one of the nest of
little villages they had to pass through on
their way to the Sila Mountains.</p><p>
From Naples they had travelled to
Buffaloria direct, there they had changed
trains for Cosenza, and at Cosenza they
had again changed for Caréno, a tiny place
that had been half-wrecked by the earth-
quake of 1870.</p><p>
They arrived here in the middle of the
night, and found the one little inn astir to
meet the arrival of passengers by that
train. The landlord, an energetic little
man, was profuse in his recommendation
of his sleeping accommodation, which he
said had been expressly arranged to meet
the requirements of English travellers.</p><p>
Clive and Sefton had, however, taken all
the sleep they intended to take as they had
jolted in their train over the marshes and
across the plains of tamarisk.</p><p>
Supper they must have-yes, that was a
necessity; and also provisions must be put
together for their tramp through the Sila
Mountains. Also mules and guides must
be found for them; but beyond this they
would not trouble the landlord of the
albergo.</p><p>
While the little man busied himself in
carrying out their directions in these
respects, the two men arranged their plans
for the continuation of their journey.</p><p>
Sefton, who had travelled the same
road before, laid down the law on the
matter.</p><p>
"The sooner we start the better," he
said, "if we wish to reach Alta Lauria
before nightfall. It is at least twelve
hours from here on the best of mules. We
have over six thousand feet to mount; the
mountain paths are atrocious; we can't do
with less than two mules each."</p><p>
"And we have to think of the return
journey," said Clive. "If Ida should be
well, and able to travel, the less delay in
getting back the better."</p><p>
He spoke moodily. The nearer it came,
the harder seemed the necessity of seeing
Sefton and Ida side by side as husband
and wife once more.</p><p>
Sefton did not for the moment reply.
When his answer came, it was a gloomy
one.</p><p>
"Let the return journey alone," he said;
"the getting there is all we can think of
now. It will be impossible to arrange the
details of our return till we know what
awaits us there."</p><p>
The landlord came in to announce that
he had succeeded in procuring for them
two of the best guides the district could
supply-Ditta and Andrea Capelli. He
had sent and roused them up from their
sleep, and they would be ready to start so
soon as the sun rose. But the mules!
There were only two in the place that a
gentleman could ride, and one of these had
lamed himself only yesterday, and would
be fit for nothing for more than a week.
He would have to send all round in search
of others. Now would the gentlemen be
pleased to wait and rest while he did
so?</p><p>
And then, to deprecate the angry
impatience which he could see in the
faces of his guests, the little man pro-
ceeded to retail a few scraps of gossip which
he thought might be likely to interest
them.</p><p>
The gentlemen were going to Alta
Lauria to the Palazzo, not a doubt.
Now had they heard the sad news which
had been told him only yesterday night,
that the Marchese's only daughter was
dead? The Marchese himself had died
only a year or so ago, and now his daughter
was dead. Was it not sad? And the
Palazzo and all the Marchese's land would
go now to a distant relative who had been
born and brought up in Naples, and knew
nothing of Calabria and its people.</p><p>
Violante dead! Sefton's face grew
white. He rose a little unsteadily from the
table and walked away to the window.
The landlord seemed to feel that he had
somehow conveyed unwelcome news, and,
after asking Clive if he would like to see
the guides so soon as they arrived, he dis-
creetly left the room.</p><p>
Clive drew a long breath.</p><p>
"This explains Ida's letter," he exclaimed.
And at the moment he could not have
said whether the thought brought him the
most of joy or of pain.</p><p>
Sefton made no reply. He was standing
at the half-open casement, his head thrown
back, his arms folded on his breast, his
eyes, with a strange, unseeing look in them,
fixed upon the distant landscape.</p><p>
The inn stood on rocks a little above
the small cluster of houses dignified by the
title of village. Below these the valley lay
in depths of purple gloom; straight in
front towered the ridges of La Sila, crag
over crag, spire over spire, till they lost
themselves in the clouds.</p><p>
The moon had set, and above these
fantastic crags and spires faintly showed
the beautiful white light which precedes
the dawn.</p><p>
On this Sefton's unseeing eyes seemed
fixed.</p><p>
A remark which he presently made
seemed to show that he was following a
curious train of thought.</p><p>
"I dare say, after all," he said, in a
vague, dreamy tone, "a man never gets
any one to love him better than his
mother does. Now if anything were to
happen to me, no one would grieve for me
like my poor old mother!"</p><p>
Assuredly Captain Culvers's late as
sociates at No. 15, Rue Vervien, would
have found some difficulty in iden-
tifying this absent, gloomy man, with
their débonnaire if somewhat haughty com-
panion of two or three days back.</p><p>
Clive was puzzled. What did this new
mood taking possession of the man mean?
The entrance of the guides—the brothers
Capelli—at this moment prevented
further talk.</p><p>
They presented a somewhat ferocious
appearance with their guns and tall,
brigand hats. Their faces, however, were
prepossessing, their manner respectful. The
elder brother, Ditta, was a man of about
forty years of age, Andrea some six or
eight years younger.</p><p>
Sefton interrogated them as to their
knowledge of the mountain passes, and
whether it would be possible to arrive
at Alta Lauria before nightfall.</p><p>
They shrugged their shoulders. If they
set off at once it would be possible; but
where there were mules to find! And
then they shrugged their shoulders again.
Clive, standing near the open window,
had his attention for a moment diverted
from these men by a voice which reached
his ear coming up out of the darkness in
the courtyard below.</p><p>
"Have those Englishmen gone on yet,"
it said, "or do they stay here for sun-
rise?"</p><p>
The landlord's voice replied telling the
story of the search for mules, and that most
probably the travellers would be delayed
for an hour or so.</p><p>
Then followed an animated colloquy—
sympathy on one side, complaint on the
other respecting the hard fate of inn-
keepers who had to keep their houses open
all day and all night to meet the uncertain
hours of the trains.</p><p>
Clive, leaning slightly forward, saw a
man emerge from the courtyard, and turn
his steps towards the road that wound
upward to the mountains. He could
just make out in the semi-darkness that
his figure was young and slight, and that he
carried a gun.</p><p>
Knowing the fondness for gossip which
exists in Italian villages, he laid no stress
upon the circumstance.</p><p>
Later on, however, it was to be recalled
to his memory.



</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-23" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIII</h3><p>


The delay in procuring the mules re-
tarded their journey by three or four hours,
and in spite of their urgency, and the offer
of double and treble pay alike to landlord
and muleteers, Clive and Sefton did not
get away from the inn till close upon eight
o'clock that morning.</p><p>
By noon, however, thanks to the good
pace of the animals when found, they
succeeded in reaching the pasture table-
lands of La Sila, which in the summer is
the scene of a vast migration of shepherds
and their flocks from the plains below.</p><p>
The hour of Ave Maria found these
plains with their meandering streams and
shadowy beech forests some three thousand
feet below them, and entirely hidden from
their view by the intervening perpendicular
rocks.</p><p>
A white pebbly fiumara, or dry torrent
course, then became their road. It
wound away steadily upward for some
three or four miles; the rocks on either
side of it closing in, near and nearer the
higher they went, until at length little
more than a broad ribbon of blue sky
geemed left to them overhead.</p><p>
Landscape there was none. Where the
sharp perpendicular rocks on either side
split, as it were, and the eye wandered
there for a glimpse of surrounding scenery,
or, as in the case of Clive and Sefton, in
hopes of catching a distant view of Alta
Lauria, it was met only by other sharp per-
pendicular rocks, or perhaps by some ravine
choked with earthquake-riven blocks of
granite; or some yawning chasm showing
black now in the fading daylight.</p><p>
And everywhere silence, solitude-in-
tense, profound. It seemed a place for
shades and ghosts to wander in, rather
than men endowed with senses that loved
light and colour, glow and variety in
beauty.</p><p>
"They're taking us all right, I suppose;
this path seems endless," said Clive,
addressing Sefton in English.</p><p>
Sefton made no reply. He had des-
cended from his mule, which he was leading
over a rough part of the road. His head
was bent, he seemed lost in thought.</p><p>
So Clive addressed an equivalent ques-
tion in Italian to Ditta.</p><p>
"How much more of this? How many
kilos?" he asked.</p><p>
The man shrugged his shoulders, and
answered that another two hours would
bring them in sight of Alta Lauria.</p><p>
After all, hours measured their road
better than kilos. Their day's march, so
far, could have been accomplished in less
than half the time along an English
country road.</p><p>
It would have been useless to deny,
young and muscular though they were, that
the fatigue of their day's mountaineering
following on the heels of their rapid
travelling from Paris was beginning to tell
on them.</p><p>
Clive noticed that during the last two
hours of this seemingly endless pass,
Sefton's brandy-flask went very often to
his lips.</p><p>
Their strip of blue sky overhead
presently told them that the sun was
setting, the deep, level blue catching all
sorts of wondrous tints, changeful, os-
cillating, undefinable as the colours in a
dove's wing.</p><p>
Then these, too, in their turn vanished,
leaving what had been level blue before
level grey now, deepening in parts into the
night blue of an Italian sky.</p><p>
And then a slow, white radiance spread-
ing athwart this, told them that the moon
had risen.</p><p>
Straight in front of them their path
took a sudden sharp curve.</p><p>
Sefton and Clive were walking side by
side now, and the guides were following
with the four mules.</p><p>
"When we round that curve we get in
sight of Alta Lauria," said Sefton.</p><p>
He stood still for a moment, leaning his
back against a huge block of granite which
might have suggested the thought that the
Titans, when building the mountains,
had let fall one of their bricks.</p><p>
"Better mount," said Clive; "you're
getting footsore."</p><p>
During this, the last day of their journey
together, his heart had softened towards
his companion in a way that, taking all
things into consideration, seemed even to
himself unaccountable.</p><p>
Sefton, however, had no intention of
mounting. He let the guides with their
mules pass on ahead, then he lowered his
voice almost to a whisper.</p><p>
"Redway," he said, "I've been thinking
over a good many things during the last
half-hour, and I've come to the conclusion
that it'll be of no use for either of us to
show fight."</p><p>
"Show fight! Where, when, how?"
asked Clive, looking all round as if in
search of some hidden foe, and feeling
instinctively for his revolver.</p><p>
"That'll be of no use to you," said
Sefton, noting the movement; "if one of
those skulking cowards attacks us there'll be
at least half-a-dozen in hiding to back him
up. Besides-" here he broke off with a
short laugh, "we won't have unnecessary
bloodshed. They'd rather not touch you
if it can be helped-it's me-my life they
want-not yours."</p><p>
"Why must there be any attacking?"
said Clive. "We've got so far on our
journey unmolested. Alta Lauria is almost
in sight now. There's no sign of any one
skulking about."</p><p>
His eye scanned the rocks right and left
of him as he ended his sentence.</p><p>
"They wouldn't be such fools as to
attack us here," replied Sefton; "there's
no hiding-place out of which they could
take sure aim. It would be a case of fair
fight, man to man, face to face. No, wait
till we've rounded that point there, straight
ahead of us, and you'll see what I mean."</p><p>
Clive suddenly paused, looking Sefton
straight in the face.</p><p>
"Do you suppose," he cried, with a
fierce impetuosity for which the other was
not prepared, "that I've travelled with you
side by side all these miles, and then
intend to stand by and see you butchered?
Do you imagine I've brought my revolver
for nothing?"</p><p>
Sefton grew excited also.</p><p>
"That's it," he cried. "I knew that
was in your mind. It would be madness
-sheer madness for you to attempt that
sort of thing. Supposing you put a bullet
into a man, what then? There'd be a
dozen knives out at you at once. And
then what becomes of Ida?"</p><p>
That was a question not easy to answer.
Clive remained silent.</p><p>
Sefton went on:</p><p>
"What are those fellows in front good
for? Would they go on to the Palazzo
and be a safe conduct for Ida back to
England? No. They'd just run away as
fast as their legs would carry them, or else
fraternise with the scoundrels who had
knocked us over. No, you must do as I
tell you. Promise me."</p><p>
There fell a long silence. The crack of
the whips of the muleteers, their loud-
voiced "Hola, huepe!" to the animals,
together with a jangling of bells, broke the
intense stillness; but there came never a
word from Clive.</p><p>
Sefton went on impetuously as before.</p><p>
"I want your word of honour-nothing
else will satisfy me-that if I am attacked
you won't show fight, but will push
straight on with the guides to the Palazzo,
demand to see Ida, and then not trust her
out of your sight till you get clear of this
accursed hole. Will you do this?—give
me your word of honour that you will."</p><p>
"Upon my life, Culvers, I can't," Clive
exclaimed, vehemently, "or if I did, it
would be of no use. I'm confident if I
saw a rifle pointed at you, or a knife
raised, I should forget all about my word
of honour, and out with my revolver at
once."</p><p>
The two men had again come to a stand-
still in the narrow pass, and were now
facing each other. On their right hand
the rocks rose straight and sheer, with
never a break in them; on their left a huge
rift let in a gleam of the fast-fading twi-
light, showed a vista of fantastic yet still
perpendicular rocks beyond, showed, too,
the deep black chasm that their path was
skirting.</p><p>
"What is your revolver like?" asked
Sefton. "Six-chambered, I suppose?"</p><p>
Clive, thinking that he was weighing
the chances of its being of use to them,
drew it from his pocket and handed it to
him.</p><p>
"It's simply perfect. I know of no
better make," he said.</p><p>
Sefton looked at it critically, then he
made a step towards the rift in the rocks
which let in the twilight, as if to get a
better view of the toy-like weapon.</p><p>
And then, before Clive could realise
what was in his mind, he had leaned over
the blocks and boulders which separated
their path from the precipice it skirted, and
the revolver was flung into the darkness of
the chasm.</p><p>
Clive turned upon him furiously.</p><p>
"You'd no right to do such a thing," he
cried; "it was treacherous of you. At
least you should have given me a choice in
the matter."</p><p>
Sefton, for once in his life, met anger
with calmness.</p><p>
"I tell you you have no choice in the
matter-the choice remains with me, and I
have made it. Try and face the fact that
we are in a position in which weapons are
of no use to us. If we are not attacked,
well and good, we don't require our re-
volvers; if we are, all your revolver would
do would be to sign your own death-
warrant, it wouldn't save my life. When
we round that point, as I told you before,
you'll see what I mean. Don't you see,
man, what deadly earnest I am in?"</p><p>
And "deadly earnest" was written on
his white face, set teeth, and rigid,
knotted brow as plainly as it could well
be.</p><p>
Then, in a silence that neither of the
two men were in the mood to break,
they made the rest of the distance that lay
between them and the sharp curve of the
rocks.</p><p>
When they rounded that curve Clive
saw in a moment what Sefton had meant.</p><p>
The narrow mountain pass came to an
end there, and the path wound steadily
downwards into a dark, well-wooded ravine,
in which lay hidden all that called itself
the village of Alta Lauria. High over
this ravine, on the farther side, straight in
front of them, stood the Palazzo, crushed
and squeezed, as it were, into a nest of
whitely-gleaming rocks.</p><p>
Higher still, over the Palazzo itself,
hung a great, white, staring moon, cutting
into sharp relief against the lucent night
sky every fantastic crag and turret of the
uppermost heights, and piling its shadows
upon the dark, wooded ravine, till it
showed like the Valley of the Shadow of
Death itself.</p><p>
And the path at the head of which
Sefton and Clive now stood led straight
into it.</p><p>
A bare, pebbly path it ran for about
twenty yards or so, then it sloped gradually
downwards into what seemed a wood of
ilex and wild olive, and where the only
road appeared to be that which wayfarers
themselves had trampled down into the
semblance of one.</p><p>
Ditta brought his mules to a standstill,
to ask if the gentlemen would like to
mount, or would they rather walk through
the wood, and mount at the farther end.</p><p>
"How far does this wood go—how
many kilos?" questioned Clive, trying to
gauge the danger that might threaten now.</p><p>
The man replied that it was something
over two kilos; that it was easier to walk
it, as there was so much scrubby under-
wood, in which the mules were apt to get
entangled. On the other side the road
grew rocky and steep once more, and then
it might be as well to mount.</p><p>
"We'll walk," said Sefton, with great
decision. "Mules would be no good to us
in that tangle."</p><p>
The muleteers went on ahead once more,
with their cracking whips, and "holas,"
and "huepes," urging on their tired
animals, till together they disappeared amid
the shadows of the ilexes and wild olives.</p><p>
Was it fancy, Clive asked himself, or
did there come, together with the shouts
and cracking of whips, a sound of move-
ment, of trampling from out the shadowy
depths of the wood, that seemed some-
thing other than the tramp of the mules
and the muleteers?</p><p>
Sefton heard it, not a doubt. With a
sudden, impetuous bound he dashed ahead
of Clive some half-dozen yards, then came
to a standstill.</p><p>
The moon lighted up his set, white face
as he turned it towards the edge of the
wood whence the sound had seemed to
come.</p><p>
"Here, you fellows in hiding there!"
he cried in Italian, in a loud, ringing
voice; "I'm a soldier, and an English-
man! If you want my life put a bullet
into me! Don't rush out at me with your
confounded butchers' knives as if I were a
sheep!"</p><p>
Swift and sharp there came the answer
he expected; the click of a rifle, the
whizzing of a bullet, and Sefton Calvers
fell a dead man at Clive's very feet.



</p></section>
			<section id="a-bride-of-a-summers-day-24" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIV</h3><p>


"Come into the garden, Ida, just for
ten minutes, before it gets dark," said
Juliet, leading the way, as she spoke,
through the open French window into the
shadowy garden. "Oh, father and Peggy
will entertain each other right enough;
one will go to sleep in one corner, and one
in the other, I dare say. I've ever s0
much to say to you. I hardly know where
to begin."</p><p>
It was Ida's first day at home after a
lengthened absence. Two years had
passed since the tragedy in the Calabrian
mountains, which had made her widow,
and had avenged Violante's broken
heart.</p><p>
And the whole of those two years, with
but brief interludes, Ida had passed in
Devon with Sefton's aged mother, minister-
ing to her as a daughter might, and doing
her utmost to render her closing days days
of peace, if not of happiness. Not until
the aged sufferer had passed away to her
rest did Ida consider her obligations to
her at an end, and return to her home.</p><p>
In all respects, during those two years,
Ida had carried herself as a widow might
a widow, too, whose conscience was not
altogether clear of remorse.</p><p>
For, reason with herself as she might,
she could not divest her mind of the idea
that she herself had been instrumental in
bringing about her husband's death.</p><p>
The terrible night when Francesca
sternly summoned her to the gates of the
Palazzo "to receive her husband," and she
stood there to see his lifeless body brought
in by the two muleteers, seemed printed on
her memory in colours that could never
fade.</p><p>
Her remorse had preyed upon her
heavily, and had sent her down into
Devon to lead a life from which she
rigorously excluded all the fun and frolic
in which hitherto she and Juliet had gone
shares.</p><p>
And not once during the whole of
those two years had she and Clive met or
exchanged a letter.</p><p>
At Naples, by her wish, they had
parted with scarce a word of leave-taking.
She had gone with her husband's body
straight to his home in Devon; and
he had remained in Italy, doing his utmost
to facilitate the discovery of the murderer
by the offer of large rewards alike to
the police and to the peasantry of the
district.</p><p>
It was all in vain, however. The bullet
could be traced to no one of the party of
men who had gone forth with their guns
in the gloom of that summer night.</p><p>
Off and on Juliet had spoken her mind
very freely to Ida about what she called
her "conventual life."</p><p>
"Come home for a time," she had
written to her, "and let us just for a week
or two make believe to be young and light-
hearted girls once more."</p><p>
And again and again in blunt, sisterly
fashion she had attacked Ida's resolution
to hold no communication whatever with
Clive.</p><p>
"Even supposing," she had written,
"that you have ruined one man's life-a
fact I by no means admit-I don't see that
that is a reason why you should ruin
another man's. Use your common sense,
my dear There'll have to be some
plain speaking between you and me sooner
or later."</p><p>
Juliet's remonstrances, however, had
been all in vain. Ida had held to her
purpose, and it was not until death had
released her from her obligations to
Sefton's desolate mother, that Juliet found
her opportunity for "plain speaking."</p><p>
She bad seized it so soon as Ida had
entered the house.</p><p>
"You'll please to sit down in white to
dinner to-night, not in that ugly black
dress," she had said, minutely criticising
her sister's toilette.</p><p>
And when Ida had yielded compliance,
and had gone back to her room to don the
white gown, she had found waiting for her
a half-wreath of wine-red roses, which
Juliet herself had twined, and which she
insisted that her sister should wear as a
throatlet.</p><p>
So soon as dinner had come to an
end, she had, as she phrased it—when
telling the story to Goody afterwards—
"hunted" Ida out of the drawing-room
into the shadowy garden, as the more
appropriate place in which to begin her
plain speaking.</p><p>
In most characteristic fashion it was begun.
For a few minutes the two had wandered
in silence down a by-walk, where beds of
heavily-scented carnations were "giving
back to the earth in fragrance all that
they had taken out of it in nourishment";
and where tall marguerites were shining
like so many stars from out their mist-like
foliage. Then Juliet suddenly announced,
with a heavy sigh, that she felt herself to
be "a blot upon the face of creation."</p><p>
Ida started.</p><p>
"A blot!" she exclaimed.</p><p>
"Yes. I feel to speak poetically-as
if I were a flower without its scent; or a
star without its light. Or—to speak
prosaically-as if I were a cow without
its horns; a gnat without its sting; a
table without its legs; a dish with nothing
upon it!"</p><p>
"All that!" cried Ida. "What a con-
glomeration of experiences!"</p><p>
"I haven't half done yet. Or a pen
without nibs; a pencil without lead; a pin
without a head; a needle without an eye;
a—"</p><p>
"Oh, sum it up in a word, and be done
with it, Juliet!"</p><p>
"Well, then, in a word, 'my occupa-
tion's gone!' During the two years you
have been away, and things have been so
slow, I have improved the occasion to the
best of my abilities. I have tamed Peggy
utterly, and have reduced father to a state
of abject submission; and now the raison
d'être of my own existence has come to an
end."</p><p>
"I should get another raison d'être, and
go on living, if I were you. What about
Arthur Glynde?" said Ida, archly. "Is
he as utterly tamed and subjugated as
father and Peggy?"</p><p>
Juliet stooped and gathered a long fern-
frond, which she waved in front of Ida
and herself to keep off the dancing twilight
gnats.</p><p>
"It doesn't in the least matter to me
what Arthur Glynde is or is not," she
answered, sentimentally. "When we next
meet we shall require an introduction to
each other."</p><p>
"Juliet!"</p><p>
"I mean it. We shall have passed
entirely out of each other's recollection.
I've told him that I never wish to see him
again until—"</p><p>
"Oh, Juliet," interrupted Ida, in great
agitation, "don't say that! You can't
mean it. Pray, pray, my darling, don't
trifle with your happiness-with his!"</p><p>
She spoke vehemently. The days when
she herself might have talked in the same
wilful fashion had long since gone by.
She had learnt at what a cost wilfulness
might be gratified, and she trembled lest
Juliet might buy her experience in a
similar manner.</p><p>
"You won't let me finish what I was
going to say," said Juliet, pathetically.
"I told him I didn't wish to see him
again until the day I fixed my wedding-
day."</p><p>
Ida drew a long breath of relief.</p><p>
"That will be soon, dear, won't it?
Aunt Sefton's death need not prevent a
quiet, a very quiet wedding."</p><p>
Juliet shook her head.</p><p>
"When Arthur and I meet again he will
be thinking of going into a churchyard,
not into a church to be married. He'll
be bald, with a high, shiny head, and grey
whiskers, and he'll think a great deal
more of his cook than he does of his tailor.
And I shall be stout, and wear glasses,
and a cap, and a great grey chignon. And
I shall be given up to works of charity'
-going out 'slumming' in the East End
of London; be perpetually writing to the
newspapers for money to give the babies
in Bethnal Green a day of fresh air; or
else—"</p><p>
"Oh, have mercy, Juliet! Why and
wherefore is all this to come about?”</p><p>
"The why and wherefore can be put
into a nutshell," answered Juliet, with
great solemnity of manner. "I told
Arthur-and he knows I mean it-that I
would never-never fix my wedding-day
till you fixed yours. Now do you under-
stand why Arthur and I will need an
introduction to each other when next we
meet?"</p><p>
"Oh, Juliet, you pain me!" cried Ida.
And then, for a few minutes, there fell a
silence between the sisters.</p><p>
As they walked thus side by side in the
gloaming, it was easy to note the difference
that two years of a diverse experience had
wrought in each. Juliet had blossomed
into the very perfection of her delicate,
dainty beauty, her colouring of eye, lip,
cheek, was at its freshest and best, and it
would have been difficult to have found a
more perfect model for an embodiment of
the goddess of perpetual youth and
beauty.</p><p>
Not so Ida. In the two years that had
passed she had lived ten, and her face
showed it. Her beauty of feature remained,
but it was a beauty of outline, not of
colour and ever-varying tint. No one
would take her for Juliet's twin-sister now,
no one would ask her to stand as a model
for the goddess of perpetual youth, al-
though she might well have posed as a
classic embodiment of stately dignity.</p><p>
As they had talked they had wandered to
the edge of the garden, and were now
brought to a standstill by the little iron
gate which separated it from the park.</p><p>
It was a glorious evening. July was at
its greenest and best. The sun had gone,
the after-glow was dying, in a wonderful
succession of opaline tints, into a pale
green sky that threw into bold and sombre
relief the grand old oaks and elms of the
park. The air was alive with insect life.
Birds were fluting to each other daintily
and dreamily from out their leafy hiding-
places, and ever and anon the rustle of the
bracken below told that the rabbits were
astir for their evening gambols.</p><p>
It was the time, the place for confidences.
Juliet felt it, and was the first to break
the silence.</p><p>
"I wish," she said, speaking very
slowly as if she were thinking out her
thoughts as she spoke them, "that you
would tell me what it is poor Clive has
done that you should keep him at arm's
length as you do? Why won't you see
him?”</p><p>
Ida's pale face grew a shade paler.</p><p>
"You pain me in asking these ques-
tions," she said, in a low tone; "don't you
know I have begged you again and again
never to allude to the past?"</p><p>
"Yes; but here's the difficulty! I can't
allude to my future without alluding to
your past. I've told you over and over
again, and I thoroughly mean it, that to
the very end of my life I intend to be your
shadow. If you die an old maid, I shall
die an old maid. If you marry, I will
marry-same day, same church, everything
precisely the same, except, the bridegroom."</p><p>
Ida's eyes swam with tears.</p><p>
"My darling," she said, brokenly, "your
future will, I hope, be a far brighter one
than mine. You haven't that on your
conscience that I have on mine."</p><p>
"Ah, well, there's one thing, at any
rate, I wouldn't have on my conscience if
I were you, and that is the responsibility
of ruining Clive Redway's health and
happiness. He looked frightfully ill when
I saw him last week."</p><p>
"Ill!"</p><p>
"Oh, yes; half-way into a decline. He
said he was going away, and I suppose it
is to Madeira where all the consumptive
people go. And I dare say he'll never
get there, but will die on the voyage, and
be buried in the sea."</p><p>
A great tear fell on Juliet's hand as it
rested on the rail of the iron gate. Juliet
felt that her words were telling, and went
on even more energetically.</p><p>
"And he has a mother, you know, and
she's not so young as she was, and I dare
say it'll kill her as well. And she's such
a darling-has such a lovely smile, and
such beautiful white hair—"</p><p>
"Oh stop, stop, Juliet, I can't stand it!"</p><p>
"Oh, well, if you can't bear to talk
about it, how will they bear to do it-die,
I mean?" said Juliet, with a little confusion
of meaning. "And what poor Mr. Redway
will do, with his wife and son both dead, I
can't imagine. Why, his life won't be
worth having, and I dare say he'll do
something foolish-marry again, or go to
the Arctic regions and shoot Esquimaux-
reindeer, I mean—"</p><p>
"Juliet," interrupted Ida, "tell me
honestly, is Clive ill, or looking ill? Don't
torture me in this way."</p><p>
Juliet gave a little laugh.</p><p>
"You can judge for yourself, if you
like," she said, calmly. "Do you see that
dark figure coming towards us from under
the beeches? That is Clive Redway."</p><p>
"Juliet! this is your doing," cried Ida,
indignantly.</p><p>
"Why, of course," answered Juliet, un-
abashed. "I should be very angry if it
were any one else's. Since I have put
father and Peggy into their right places,
I do all the inviting that has to be done.
Young men and maidens, old men and
children-none of them dare come near
the house unless I invite them."</p><p>
And before Ida had time to recover
from her surprise, Juliet had disappeared,
and there was Clive leaning over the
gate, looking down into her eyes, and
saying:</p><p>
"I have come for the last time to learn
my fate. Will you give me five minutes
just five minutes-I don't ask for
more?"</p>
<hr/>
<p>"Lovers' hours are long, though seeming
short." Lady Calvers, with a start,
awakened from her after-dinner nap, and
looked up at the clock on a corner
bracket. Its hands pointed to half-past
two! That could not possibly be the
hour. She rubbed her eyes, doubting
their evidence.</p><p>
"No, that's not the right time," said
Juliet, coming out of a shadowy corner of
the room. "Time was going so slowly I
thought I'd jog it on a little, and so put
the hands forward an hour or so."</p><p>
"My dear love! Then what is the
time? And where is Ida?”</p><p>
"Well, judging from my own feelings,
I should think it was going on for sunrise.
I seem to have been sitting here for half
a day, at least, doing nothing."</p><p>
"And on the tip-toe of expectation,"
she added to herself, sotto voce.</p><p>
"But where-where is Ida?" repeated
Lady Culvers.</p><p>
And Lord Culvers, entering the room at
that moment, echoed her question.</p><p>
"Ida at the present moment," answered
the ever-ready Juliet, "is engaged with a
professor of dancing-to whom I tele-
graphed this morning-making arrange-
ments for a course of lessons in the Scotch
reel, which is generally danced at Irish
funerals. I left them in the garden to-
gether. Possibly, when they've arranged
terms, they'll come in hand in hand."</p><p>
She walked to the window as she
finished speaking, and shadowing her eyes
with her hand to shut out the lamp-light,
looked a-down the dim walks.</p><p>
Bird-notes had ceased now; the mother-
o'-pearl sky had given place to the sapphire-
blue of night. A moon in crescent had
risen high above the trees in the park,
and "dimly rained about each leaf twi-
lights of airy silver." Two figures were
emerging from a side-walk, and making
for the patch of light which the drawing-
room window threw upon the terrace.</p><p>
Juliet, with a bound, went to meet them.
"Where is Lord Calvers?" asked Clive,
with a ring in his voice that had not been
there for many a day past.</p><p>
"Juliet," whispered Ida, tremulously,
"since you will be my shadow, send for
Arthur Glynde, and fix your wedding-day
at once!"

</p>
			</section>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
