<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-16" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</h2>
			<p>So Marie Schira passed away with her story untold.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The air struck chill to Clive as, weary and sad at heart, he made his way down the stairs and out into the silent streets in the grey of the early dawn.</p>
			<p>In spite of the early hour, he found Lord Culvers dressed and seated at breakfast when he got back to the hotel. To Clive’s fancy he looked far less dejected and spiritless than when he had left him overnight. To say truth, the old gentleman had ventured to build on Clive’s prolonged absence hopes that the circumstances scarcely justified. He was naturally enough eager for an explanation. The long, dreary explanation that Clive had to give killed those hopes one by one.</p>
			<p>When it came to an end the two found themselves precisely where they had been on the preceding day, so far at least as the mystery of Ida’s disappearance was concerned⁠—at the end of a blind alley, as it were, with a blank wall facing them.</p>
			<p>“The thing we have now to decide,” said Clive, as he finished his story, “is whether it will be better for me to see and question this man, John Skinner, or whether it will be best to leave him to the police.”</p>
			<p>The matter was to be decided for them, for even as Clive said the words the door opened, and a waiter entered to say that a man, by name John Skinner, was below, and wished to see Lord Culvers.</p>
			<p>“We must be on our guard against fraud with a man of his stamp,” said Clive, as the waiter departed to show the man in.</p>
			<p>Assuredly the personal appearance of John Skinner was not such as to inspire confidence. With his hat removed, he looked even less attractive than he had on the previous night. He was short in stature, with a flat head, small eyes, and hair, complexion, and whiskers of a sandy hue. The expression on his face was that of cunning of a low type combined with servility.</p>
			<p>He looked from Lord Calvers to Clive, from Clive to Lord Culvers. Then he turned to the latter, saying:</p>
			<p>“I was told you wished to see me, my lord.”</p>
			<p>Lord Calvers looked helplessly at Clive.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Clive, coming forward, and going straight to the point at once. “We have a question to ask you. How did a diamond brooch, the property of Lord Culvers’s daughter, pass into the possession of your sister?”</p>
			<p>The man did not immediately reply. A look of low cunning settled on his face. He made one step towards Lord Culvers.</p>
			<p>“My lord,” he said, “I have a question⁠—an important one⁠—to ask before I speak. I know that a handsome reward has been offered for the brooch, I want to know if there will be a reward⁠—in proportion to that very handsome sum⁠—for relating how that brooch got into a certain person’s possession, and how it passed out of that person’s possession into someone else’s?”</p>
			<p>“Oh‑h,” said Clive, contemptuously, “it’s a case of how much down, is it?”</p>
			<p>Lord Culvers became greatly agitated.</p>
			<p>“Speak out, don’t talk in enigmas,” he said. “Of course I’ll pay for information that may be worth having. Who is that ‘certain person’?”</p>
			<p>“But we’ve yet to learn that this man’s word is to be relied on,” said Clive, even more contemptuously than before. “A man who sells information for so much down, is likely to manufacture as much as he can find a market for.”</p>
			<p>Again the man declined to answer Clive, and addressed Lord Culvers.</p>
			<p>“You can test the truth of my statements in any way you please, my lord,” he said; “but I don’t open my lips till I find out if it’ll be worth my while.”</p>
			<p>“How much do you want?” asked Lord Culvers, his agitation increasing on him.</p>
			<p>For answer Skinner drew from his pocket a letter-case, from which he took some four or five slips of paper. These he spread before Lord Culvers, pointing with his finger to the name which signed each slip.</p>
			<p>One and all these papers were headed with the formidable letters “<abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">I.O.U.</abbr>,” one and all they were signed with the name “Sefton Culvers.”</p>
			<p>“A mere bagatelle, my lord,” he said, flippantly; “in all something under five hundred pounds. But, small as it is, there’s no chance of my getting it out of the Captain. He has threatened more than once to pitch me out of the window, or kick me downstairs, just for asking for it.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose there can be no doubt that this is Captain Culvers’s writing?” said Clive, turning to Lord Culvers.</p>
			<p>Lord Culvers vouched for the genuineness of the signatures.</p>
			<p>“And not a doubt, sooner or later,” he added, “I shall have to discharge these and considerably heavier liabilities for my nephew.”</p>
			<p>It was scarcely the time for parleying and bargaining; it seemed the wiser course to cut short delay and write a cheque at once for the amount.</p>
			<p>“Now for your story,” said Clive, impatiently interrupting the man’s profuse and somewhat servile thanks.</p>
			<p>The story was simple enough, and was given in one sentence:</p>
			<p>“I was in the room when Captain Culvers took the brooch out of his pocket, and gave it to Marie Schira, after a theatrical supper which the Captain gave in the Rue Vervien.”</p>
			<p>“Ah‑h!”</p>
			<p>And Lord Culvers’s face expressed great amazement.</p>
			<p>“Was anyone else present?” asked Clive, thinking it might be as well to get the man’s words verified.</p>
			<p>“Only my chum, George Johnson, sir, who’ll vouch for the truth of what I say. Marie went into raptures over the brooch, and asked the Captain where he had got such a pretty thing from. The Captain, half laughing, said that he had found it on the floor of a carriage, with its pin broken as she saw it. Upon which Marie laughed, and said whoever had dropped it would never see it again.”</p>
			<p>“On the floor of a carriage!” repeated Lord Calvers. “That may have been on his way back to Glynde Lodge after Ida left him.”</p>
			<p>“Marie was deeply in debt,” Skinner went on, willing to tell any amount of secrets now that it had been made “worth his while” to do so. “I suspect that she herself removed the stones from the brooch, and disposed of them as best she could.”</p>
			<p>The explanation seemed feasible enough. It made plain to Clive that the name of Culvers so often on poor Marie’s lips represented to her mind Sefton, not Sefton’s uncle.</p>
			<p>Lord Culvers, in great agitation, paced the room.</p>
			<p>“I couldn’t have believed it of Sefton⁠—no, not if anyone had sworn it!” he exclaimed. “One’s own flesh and blood! After this, what may we not expect to hear?”</p>
			<p>“So ends the episode of the diamond brooch,” said Clive, bitterly, with an irritating recollection of the manner in which his father’s sagacity had been led astray on the matter.</p>
			<p>Then he turned to Skinner.</p>
			<p>“You can go,” he said, a little sharply. “Of course, we shall take care, one way or another, to get your statements verified.”</p>
			<p>But how much of verification either he or Lord Culvers judged necessary, may be gathered from the fact that, as the door closed on the man, they exclaimed simultaneously, as with one voice:</p>
			<p>“Police enquiry on this matter must be stopped at once.”</p>
			<p>Personally, it would not have troubled Clive one jot to have seen Sefton Culvers pilloried before the world, if only the man himself could have been detached from the name he bore. That name, however, at all costs had to be kept untarnished.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
